                            The Frontiers of Alusia

A Campaign History

  T. Kurt Bond

   Copyright © 1994, 2000, 2004, 2007, 2009, 2015, 2017, 2019, 2020 T. Kurt
   Bond

   Permision is granted for members of this campaign to make copies for
   personal use.

   Wednesday, 11 March 2020

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   Dedication

   This campaign history is dedicated the players who made this campaign so
   much fun.

   Table of Contents

   1. Campaign Background

                1.1. Setting

                1.2. Rules Systems

                1.3. Players

                1.4. BAMF, Inc.

   2. Player Characters

   3. Non-Player Characters

   4. The Party's Background and Formation

   5. The Adventures

                5.1. The Ogres of Crystal Springs

                5.2. The Merchant's Insane Son

                5.3. To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

                5.4. Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

                5.5. The Search for Jomanal

                5.6. The Stronghold of Sassym

                5.7. The Arrest of the Party

                5.8. To the Mountain Wall

                5.9. The Giant's Watchtower

                5.10. The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

                5.11. The Attack on Tuath's Rest

                5.12. From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

                5.13. Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

                5.14. Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

                5.15. The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban

                5.16. Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

                5.17. Escape from Marv Dashlam

                5.18. Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

                5.19. Recrossing the Gatar Shey

                5.20. Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

                5.21. Smugglers' Cove and Caves

                5.22. The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                5.23. Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

                5.24. The Smugglers' Ships

                5.25. Some Events at Finn's Waste

                5.26. The Abandoned Cathedral

                5.27. Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

                5.28. Winter in Seagate

                             5.28.1. Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt

                             5.28.2. Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed

                5.29. Spring in Seagate

                             5.29.1. Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

                             5.29.2. Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                5.30. Roadtrip!

                             5.30.1. Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests,
                             Golems, Little People, and Mages

                             5.30.2. Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and
                             Orcs Again

   6. Post-Campaign Events

   7. Interesting Items

   8. Interesting Places

   9. Reflections on a Campaign

                9.1. The Frontiers of Alusia

                9.2. DragonQuest

                9.3. GURPS

   A. Report from BAMF, Inc.

                A.1. Background

                A.2. Report from BAMF, Inc.

                A.3. Message from the Auhaami

   Index

                         Chapter 1. Campaign Background

   Table of Contents

   1.1. Setting

   1.2. Rules Systems

   1.3. Players

   1.4. BAMF, Inc.

   Early in my years at college^[1] I ran a short DragonQuest campaign using
   SPI's The Enchanted Wood adventure. Unfortunately, I don't have any notes
   on that campaign, other than the ones I wrote in the adventure booklet
   itself, but I do remember that the players were my older brother Paul, his
   girlfriend (at the time, and now wife) Connie, and my friends Howard,
   Larry, and I think Matt. It went well and everybody seemed to have a good
   time. After it was over I eventually decided to run another campaign using
   DragonQuest with a new set of characters. It ran for a much longer time,
   and I kept somewhat better notes this time, so I've been able to
   reconstruct much of its history.

1.1. Setting

   This campaign was set in a heavily modified version of The Frontiers of
   Alusia, a very minimal setting (with a rather nice map) published by
   SPI^[2] for their DragonQuest roleplaying game.

1.2. Rules Systems

   I originally ran this using SPI's DragonQuest (DQ) rules, of course.
   Eventually I switched it to GURPS 3^rd edition. (See Section 5.27,
   “Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate”.)

1.3. Players

   The players have varied slightly over the years.

     * Alan Bond^[3] — Played Gim Torson

     * T. Kurt Bond^[4] — Played Derenedeth

     * Karen Elliott — Played Tesla Ramana

     * Matt Elliott — Played Winther

     * H. Howard H. Hill — Played Boswt (deceased), Korbel Noir (deceased),
       and Shay Uvall

     * Steve Scott — Played Cormac Tricerius

     * Ray Smith^[5] — Played Barlow Smythe (deceased), Kalo Bibkins
       (deceased but still around), and Jamie Molson

     * Vicky Staubly — Played Bytor^[6]

     * Larry Wilson — Played Basgoot

1.4. BAMF, Inc.

   I ran another short campaign using this setting while I was in college.
   The players (who included at least Steve Willis) in that campaign called
   their adventuring group BAMF, Inc., and that campaign had a slight overlap
   with this campaign. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to find most of my
   notes for that campaign, so I don't have any more details than that. (I do
   remember that the bit about eating the heart actually happened.)

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   ^[1] Probably in 1984?

   ^[2] Simulations Publications, Inc., an influential and prolific game
   publisher of the 1970s and 1980s.

   ^[3] GMed an adventure.

   ^[4] Yes, I played in my own campaign; with someone else GMing those
   sessions, of course.

   ^[5] GMed a couple of sessions.

   ^[6] And maybe Remy Gill?

                          Chapter 2. Player Characters

   This chapter describes the player characters.

   Barlow Smythe.  (Ray Smith's first character, deceased.) Barlow Smythe
   died at the Crypts of Stonesboro, heroically holding off the enemy while
   the others escaped.

   Basgoot.  (Larry Wilson's character, transformed.) Basgoot started with a
   troubled past and has accumulated many more problems as time went by, but
   the greatest of his afflictions is his on-again-off-again transformation
   from human to demonic changeling by the powerful demon (see Narung's Demon
   and Narung Reforged) imprisoned inside Narung, the powerful magical sword
   he accepted from a ghost. The demon has apparently learned how to stay on
   the material plane even when Banished or killed, and so must be imprisoned
   for all time. Basgoot is also intermittently plagued by drunkenness, first
   brought on by drinking from the wineskin of an old man the party met in
   the same crypts they found Narung. This old man has occasionally appeared
   elsewhere to confuse the party and help Basgoot, including in the South.

   Boswt.  (Howard Hill's first character, deceased.) Boswt died at the
   Stronghold of Sassym by falling down a shaft after slipping from
   slime-covered hand and footholds.

   Bytor.  (Vicky Staubly's character, deceased.) Bytor was known for his
   anachronistic exclamation `Hot Tub!' and for his shades. He died at the
   Crypts of Stonesboro and, sadly, reappeared later as a zombie re-animated
   by the necromancer of the crypts and fought against his former friends,
   who killed him.

   Cormac Tricerius.  (Steve Scott's character.) Cormac Tricerius died in an
   ambush on the way to Blackstone Chapel and died again later in its
   defense, but was resurrected each time by the grateful clerics' deity. In
   Makad-al-Arakan he drank of the Waters of Arakan's Delight, acquiring
   thereby a link to and weakness for Arakan which long troubled him and was
   cured only by Mordraug, the Necromancer of Wolf River.

   Derenedeth.  (Kurt Bond's character.) Derenedeth escaped the round-up of
   the party that ended in their exile, and while the rest of the party
   vacationed in the south he occupied himself with shadowy endeavors in
   Carzala's underworld. When they returned he provided them with the
   information they needed to revenge themselves on the Judge who exiled
   them, information that enriched them at the same time and eventually
   resulted in their being rewarded with a barony.

   Gim Torson.  (Alan Bond's character.) Gim Torson is an elf who has lived
   too long among humans. He died in the defense of Blackstone Chapel, but
   was resurrected by the grateful clerics' deity. Originally one of the
   consciences of the party, he has latterly become unhesitating and ruthless
   (just ask the old man on the altar in Makad-al-Arakan). He lost a leg to a
   demon's hunger and anger and gained the nickname Gimp, but regained his
   leg by the magic of Mordraug the necromancer. Neither he nor Jamie nor
   Shay nor Basgoot nor Cormac can remember what they did for a month to
   repay the necromancer for re-attaching Gim's leg and healing Balour Shaw,
   but they fear the worst. (After all, he was a Necromancer!)

   Jamie Molson.  (Ray Smith's third character.) Betrayed to the authorities
   by a rival, Jamie Molson joined the party when they were exiled to the
   south. He died while in the south, at the Inn of the Prophet's End during
   an attack by assassins. Luckily his miserly companions found enough money
   on his person for a resurrection. If it weren't for his tight grasp,
   Narung would have ended up with Bolg in the earth below Mordraug's Lair,
   and he was lucky to get the five fingers thus cut off re-attached
   immediately. His curiosity is his greatest weakness, and his greatest
   strength.

   Kalo Bibkins.  (Ray Smith's second character.) Kalo Bibkins was a rash but
   entertaining halfling who caused the party's exile to the south and in the
   process was messily executed for theft. He still troubles the party's
   sleeping hours (and occasionally their waking ones), unable to rest
   peacefully in his grave. (See Kalo Bibkins is Back.)

   Korbel Noir.  (Howard Hill's second character.) Korbel Noir was killed by
   a were-tiger at Castle Ashban. He was valiant, foolish, suicidal, and
   given to desecration of just about anything, usually by strewing entrails.

   Shay Uvall.  (Howard Hill's third character.) From south of the Gatar
   Shey, Shay Uvall is also valiant, foolish, given to desecration of just
   about anything, usually by strewing entrails; whether he's suicidal or not
   isn't yet known. He has travelled widely in the South as both a merchant
   and a mercenary.

   Tesla Ramana.  (Karen Elliott's character.) Tesla Ramana left adventuring
   after being crippled by a crate of contraband dropped on her during the
   attack on Smugglers Cove, but has applied herself to the equally
   competitive (if usually less violent) world of trade and looks after many
   of the party's day to day business operations. Her disfiguring injuries
   have started her on a program of surgical and magical alterations that
   seem to be leading beyond mere repair.

   Winther.  (Matt Elliott's character.) Winther was often called the
   `Band-Aid' by the other members of the party because of his healing
   skills, and fond of debate and reasoned discussion, he is the party's
   bastion of morality in an uncertain world. He feels a sense of duty to
   better the world, and his companions, but suffers occasional dark fits of
   cynicism. Winther also drank from the wine-sack of that wandering madman
   when he appeared to them in the South, and thus sometimes seeks refuge in
   the blood of the vine.

   Spear Fodder.  (Played by various drop-ins.) These various visitors
   typically did not survive long. Such is life, and death.

                        Chapter 3. Non-Player Characters

   This chapter describes some of the important non-player characters that
   have affected the lives of the player characters.

   Albad. Albad is the name of the mysterious man in Marv Dashlamwho hired
   them to abduct Hajj.

   Amur Gibbetsmaster.  Amur Gibbetsmaster, the hanging judge of Seagate,
   exiled the party with a geas to explore the South to further his own
   nefarious schemes. Upon their return from the South the party was
   instrumental in his own downfall and eventual hanging.

   Balour Shaw.  (Crazed no longer, just missing.) A mysterious mage,
   sometime mentor of Gim Torson and once insane and in the custody of the
   party, Balour Shaw was cured by Mordraug the necromancer and has since
   disappeared, telling the party they're responsible for Carzala's survival
   now — he has better things to do.

   Beggar King.  This evil beinglives in the sewers and tunnels below
   Seagate, and controls all of the beggars who live in and around Seagate.
   He is an occasional enemy of the party because of their intrusions into
   his domain.

   Brandon Marec.  Brandon Marec is the captain of the Seagate city guards, a
   vicious bully, and a follower of Tathlam Dargan, the Baron of Seagate.
   Brandon has a special place in his heart for the party, and it's not
   somewhere anyone would want to visit.

   Camlost.  Captain of one of the party's ships, Camlost is a very severe
   and ascetic human, tall, dark, and dour. While not well liked by his men,
   they have tremendous respect for his skill and his courage. Not much is
   known about his history before he started working the trade routes from
   Carzala to the North ten years ago.

   Cleirach.  (Pronounced “Cleary”.) The main engineer hired by the party to
   build the road, Cleirach is a small man, very quick physically and
   mentally both. He is full of strong opinions. He learned his trade in the
   North, in the Broken Lands, and in the Confederacy, where he also worked
   on civilian projects.

   Corvious Dark-blade.  A skilled weapons-master who runs a private weapons
   training establishment in Seagate, Corvious Darkblade was Barlow Smythe's
   first contact in Carzala. His cognomen comes from the strange blade of
   dark metal that he carries. Corvious has an enviable reputation as someone
   not to anger, and various rumors abound that the fencing academy he runs
   is not his real business.

   Daffyd ap Hugh.  Captain of the Count's courier vessel, the Seaswift,
   Daffyd ap Hugh is the intelligent young man who escorted the characters
   back to Smugglers' Cove when they returned to retrieve their ships.

   Delath Lorven.  The Count of Seagate.

   Dohraoul.  Dohraoul is the Knight of Theris who escorted the party off the
   soil of Carzala via Chapel Crossing at the border of the Brastor Holding
   and the Sea of Grass. He was a grim man who behaved politely to the party
   members because, as he explained upon first meeting them, he thought they
   had been dishonorably treated — they should have been allowed to die with
   their honor and dignity intact. He was also the first to welcome the party
   back to civilization and Carzala when they crossed back into the Brastor
   Holding at Chapel Crossing on their return journey.

   Dhairrhuwyth.  A wizard who lived in Seagate and was friends with Balour
   Shaw. Helped the party disrupt the Arkanian's attempt to call up Arakan at
   Finn's Waste.

   Dulinn Wiell.  Dulinn Wiell is the party's merchant factor in Seagate,
   finding cargoes for the party's ships and selling the incoming cargoes.

   Evan.  A strange, gray, enormously strong dwarf-like being who was rescued
   by the party from a spider web in the Caves at Smugglers' Cove, Evan has a
   definite affinity for stone and has proven himself a masterly
   weapon-smith, reforging Narung with the help of Chelm and Bolg. He was
   last seen wandering south through the Atrusian hills, leaving the party
   (in disgust?) after their escape from the stronghold of the (unjustly?)
   murdered Necromancer, Mordraug.

   Gerrod.  A marine sergeant whom the party lost in the Spider Hall in the
   caves behind Smugglers' Cove and then rescued from the Arkanians at Finn's
   Waste, Gerrod was foolishly grateful for the rescue and asked the Count to
   retire him into the party's service. He now is the so-called `butler' of
   the party, when their house isn't exploded and burned to the ground, and
   has proved an invaluable servant and ally, as well as a invaluable source
   of knowledge about the Carzala military.

   Gh'yal.  Gh'yal was the leader of the Jetaleem, and is the one the party
   has to thank for convincing the other Jetaleem that they were indeed
   intelligent, and would not be a suitable breakfast snack. He also talked
   the party into killing the evil wizard Moghu in return for an escort to
   the north side of the Salt Sea.

   Girfalath.  The captain of one of the party's ships, Girfalath is an Elf,
   completely frivolous when off duty, but completely serious when on duty or
   on his ship.

   Hajj.  A true Prophet, Hajj was rescued (or kidnapped, depending on your
   viewpoint) by the party from the danger of assassination south of the
   Gatar Shey at the request of the ruler of Marv Dashlam and brought north
   to safety. His politics and philosophy tend to offend the priests of most
   religions, emphasizing reason and equality as they do, and it is hard to
   decide if he is a holy man, a philosopher or a troublemaker.

   Harun.  Harun was the tribal champion of the Auhaami that Basgoot defeated
   in the Auhaami tradition so that the party might enter an oasis in the
   party's first encounter with the Auhaami of the Gatar Shey.

   Ilene.  A beautiful young woman rescued from an enchanted sleep in a
   underground stronghold in the wilderness at the behest of Balour Shaw,
   Ilene is rebuilding Balour Shaw's tower, helped by a group of untalkative
   Dwarves.

   Karl Blue-tooth.  Karl Blue-tooth was the guide the party hired to help
   them find the source of the Wolf River in search of Mordraug. His
   unpleasant personality and crude personal habits ensured that the party
   did not grieve when he did not return from the journey, after he had
   abandoned them near their destination.

   The Mage.  The party has offended this powerful mage on several
   occassions. They really have no idea who he is or what he is about,
   although he seems to be involved with Suliman Trade.

   Melthal Heavy-hand.  Melthal Heavy-hand is a recently retired army officer
   who ranked high in the Count of Carzala's service, and who still retains
   numerous friends there. He was Basgoot's first contact in Carzala. He is a
   gruff and testy person whose trust is not easily won. He lives on a large
   farm with his family somewhere not far from Seagate.

   Moghu.  Moghu was a tyrannical evil wizard and ruler and the creator of
   the Sand Golems; the party slew him to free the Jetaleem.

   Mordraug.  A powerful necromancer and healer who lived in seclusion in a
   stronghold he gained from the Dwarves in olden times for healing their
   king, Mordraug was sought out by the party to replace Gim's missing leg
   and heal Balour Shaw's mental and physical injuries. The party paid for
   this with a month of their lives, which they do not remember. He later
   caused Narung to be reforged and helped imprison the demon in the sword,
   but was foully murdered immediately afterward by Basgoot, fulfilling a
   bargain made with Bolg, the orcish-named Dwarf who also helped reforge
   Narung.

   Mother Thistle.  An old woman living alone in a cottage deep in the
   Thornwoood Forest, Mother Thistle help heal the party.

   The Necromancer.  The party has offended this powerful necromancer on
   several occassions. They really don't know who he is or what he is about.

   Polam Wesved.  A rich land holder in the Brastor Holding, became an enemy
   of the party.

   Selye Storm-watcher.  Selye Storm-watcher is a prosperous, if eccentric,
   resident of Gurgnir's Hope who was Cormac Tricerius's first contact in
   Carzala. Although his adventures have made him plenty of money, he still
   spends much of his time adventuring or exploring the lands around Carzala,
   often alone. His name comes from his habit of wandering around in and
   watching storms, especially violent ones.

   Rayesta.  A nomad girl from the Sea of Grass, Rayesta was trading in the
   Brastor Holding when Polam Wesved tried to abduct her. She fled to
   Blackstone Chapel, where the PCs held off several attacks by Wesved's
   thugs.

   Remy Gill^[7].  A very young Elf, Remy Gill is nonetheless a very
   accomplished military engineer, having worked on both sides in many
   seiges.

   Slehad.  Slehad was the quirky and interesting Fire Giant who entertained
   the party in his tower overlooking the cliffs of the Mountain Wall and the
   Gatar Shey. Unfortunately for the party, he turned out to have disturbing
   habits and dietary tastes and human and elvish corpses in his larder.

   Steffan.  A young officer in the Count's court, Steffan is a pleasant
   young man with a taste for gambling and intrigue, but he is extremely
   devoted to the Count, who trusts him with difficult assignments. Steffan
   is probably one of the party's best supporters at court.

   Tathlam Dargan.  The Baron of Seagate, Tathlam Dargan is an enemy of the
   party, in part because of their disruption of his once peaceful community,
   in part due to their actions towards Amur Gibbetsmaster, and no doubt in
   part for other reasons.^[8]

   Tamhas.  Tamhas was the captain of one of the detachments of marines that
   accompanied the party back to Smugglers' Cove to retrieve the ships and
   their cargo.

   Tekhadun.  (Deceased.) A dwarf who was forced to join the party when they
   were geased to travel to the Kingdoms of the Five Sisters, Tekhadun was
   bad-tempered and prideful, but a master of the axe. He died in the south,
   killed while fighting a Chimera.^[9]

   Tully Glas.  Tully Glas is the party's factotum^[10] in the North, taking
   care of finding cargoes and running their trading business, as well as
   whatever else comes up.

   Tychel.  Head priest of Blackstone Chapel, and a friend of the party.

   Uillean Kawiyr.  Uillean Kawiyr was the captain of one of the detachments
   of marines that accompanied the party back to Smugglers' Cove to retrieve
   the ships and their cargo.

   Ulfred.  Ulfred is another of the military engineers that the party hired
   to build the road. He is a very short but very broad man, his hair
   beginning to grey, with a short steel-grey beard.

   Vlad Sharp-knife.  Vlad Sharp-knife is a prosperous merchant based in
   Crystal Springs who was Gim Torson's first contact in Carzala. He has
   suggested the party to several persons looking for adventurers to do jobs,
   has helped them find merchants who might be interested in the South and
   helping build the road, and has acted as a consultant to help the party
   get their merchant company started. He is extremely curious, but now that
   he is getting older he usually leaves the adventuring to others. His name
   comes from the many daggers he invariable carries, some concealed, that he
   has been known to use on those who try to cheat him.

   Yavidi.  Yavidi is the leader of the Kaval-tu-Ata, the Auhaami tribe the
   party spent so much time with while in the Gatar Shey.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   ^[7] Remy Gill needs to be moved to the Player Character chapter. Who
   played Remy Gill?

   ^[8] Originally the position of Baron of Seagate was traditionally given
   to one of the Count of Carzala's younger sons, and the Baron worked
   closely with the Count. However, at one point in the past the position
   went to one of the Count's daughters, a very unusual woman, and when she
   died the position was given to her husband, a very popular member of
   court, and when he died it was given to his son by his first wife. Thus
   eventually it was inherited (more-or-less) by Tathlam Dargan.

   ^[9] Did the party ever bother to tell his kinfolk? Who are his kinfolk,
   anyway?

   ^[10] n. A person employed to do all kinds of work.

                Chapter 4. The Party's Background and Formation

   The characters all came south from their homes to the Frontiers of Alusia
   looking for adventure. They fell into bad company (that of each other) on
   the ship that brought them to Seagate, the capitol of the County of
   Carzala, and decided to band together for mutual advantage. It has been
   downhill all the way since then. They arrived in Seagate on 1 Kelemore
   842.

  Note

   This campaign started sometime in 1985.

                           Chapter 5. The Adventures

   Table of Contents

   5.1. The Ogres of Crystal Springs

   5.2. The Merchant's Insane Son

   5.3. To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   5.4. Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

   5.5. The Search for Jomanal

   5.6. The Stronghold of Sassym

   5.7. The Arrest of the Party

   5.8. To the Mountain Wall

   5.9. The Giant's Watchtower

   5.10. The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

   5.11. The Attack on Tuath's Rest

   5.12. From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   5.13. Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

   5.14. Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

   5.15. The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban

   5.16. Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

   5.17. Escape from Marv Dashlam

   5.18. Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   5.19. Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   5.20. Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

   5.21. Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   5.22. The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

   5.23. Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

   5.24. The Smugglers' Ships

   5.25. Some Events at Finn's Waste

   5.26. The Abandoned Cathedral

   5.27. Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   5.28. Winter in Seagate

                5.28.1. Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt

                5.28.2. Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed

   5.29. Spring in Seagate

                5.29.1. Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

                5.29.2. Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   5.30. Roadtrip!

                5.30.1. Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
                People, and Mages

                5.30.2. Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and Orcs Again

   Following is a recounting of the events of each adventure in the order
   they happened, arranged by adventure rather than by playing session, but
   with possible dates of play following each adventure.^[11]

5.1. The Ogres of Crystal Springs

   The party traveled to Crystal Springs, where Gim Torson gave Vlad
   Sharp-knife, a retired merchant and adventurer, a letter of introduction.
   Vlad suggested that the Mayor of Crystal Springs might hire them. The
   mayor, Kesdra, hired them to get rid of two ogres who had moved down out
   of the Fastness of Girwyllan and were way-laying travelers and outlying
   farms. (The guards of Regir's Keep were occupied to the south, hunting
   down several large bands of outlaws in the Sweet Riding.) While the party
   searched for the ogres, the ogres ambushed them on the road. When the
   party proved more than the ogres could handle the ogres fled to their
   nearby subterranean lair. The party followed and killed them. Among the
   debris was a map the party could not read.

   Magic.  During this adventure the party picked up two potions of healing
   and one map in an ornate bone scroll case. The potions have been used and
   the map has been followed.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed sometime in 1985.

5.2. The Merchant's Insane Son

   The wealthy merchant Rasson hired the party to rescue his son, Turon.
   Three months before, Turon had been abducted by an enemy of Rasson's, a
   mage. The mage drove Turon mad and turned him loose in the Wilderlands of
   Gilarni, a forest territory claimed by Elves. When Rasson found out he
   sent his men to bring his son back, but they were ambushed and massacred
   by the Elves, for Turon in his madness had attacked and killed an Elf, and
   the Elves in turn were killing any humans in the forest in retaliation.
   After this Rasson hired the party because one of them was an Elf.

   On the way to the Wilderlands of Gilarni the party stayed at the inn at
   Arn's Ferry, where they were attacked by an assassin who (as they found
   out afterwards) carried a strange coin: it was a large gold coin, not one
   that any of the party had ever see, and was obviously carved rather than
   minted. They survived the attack, but were thrown out of the inn and could
   only find lodging in a strange tower inhabited by an even stranger old
   man, Balour Shaw, who habitually spoke in a most enigmatic manner. The
   next morning they found three more assassins frozen to death outside the
   tower; each carried one of the strange gold coins.

   Once in the Wilderlands of Gilarni, the party was accosted by Elves, but
   Gim Torson convinced the Elves that allowing the party to complete their
   mission was something to be desired by all involved (expect The Mage, of
   course) and that Turon was not responsible for his actions. The party
   rescued Turon from the riverside cave where he was living (battering him
   somewhat in the process), disposed of some of the mage's henchmen who
   attacked them, and returned Turon to his father Rasson. Gim Torson later
   revisited Balour Shaw and began learning magic from him.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed sometime in 1985.

5.3. To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   Rasson recommended the party to Tomon, who was looking for a group of
   adventurers to investigate the rumors that something was living in the
   burial crypts near Stonesboro. The crypts turned out to be inhabited by
   various ruffians, sub-humans, and undead, most of which were in the
   service of a necromancer, though the party only figured this out later,
   near the end of the adventure.

   Bytor was killed early on. Barlow Smythe was killed while bravely and
   selflessly holding off some of the monsters in an early retreat, and was
   replaced by his friend Kalo Bibkins, a choice that had a dark and
   significant impact on the party's future.

   During the clearing of the caves, the party met the Ghost of Harmon, who
   asked that one among them take up his sword and clear the crypts of
   Undead; Basgoot accepted, and was Geased to kill all the undead in the
   crypts and their maker. The sword, a magic bastard sword, was named
   Narung. Later the party met a madman in the crypts, who offered them a
   drink from his wineskin. Basgoot again accepted, and was drunk for days.

   Finally the party killed the necromancer after an epic battle with all of
   his remaining undead servants, among whom, alas, Bytor was now numbered.
   Afterwards they freed a group of Dwarves who had been captured by the
   necromancer and were being forced to build tunnels for him.

   At some time before, during, or after this adventure, the party was
   summoned to a warehouse where a menacing figure warned them that they had
   crossed him once, and must never again do so. The crates in the warehouse
   were marked with the sign of Suliman Trade.^[12]

   Magic.  During this adventure the party picked up five books and one box
   of mysterious powder from the from the necromancer's library, one wand of
   Fire and Brimstone, and a small pouch of red balls that expanded and then
   exploded. The pouch has been emptied and the books sold.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed sometime in 1985.

5.4. Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

   The party contracted to defend a religious community of healers in the
   hills south of the Brastor Holding and the South Lending. The community
   had angered Polam Wesved, a powerful and unscrupulous merchant, by
   offering shelter to Rayesta, a beautiful Horse Nomad warrior that Wesved
   had tried to abduct and enslave. She beat off the kidnappers, but was
   severely injured; fleeing into the southern hills, she stumbled into
   Blackstone Chapel, a small religious community, where she was taken in and
   healed. Wesved told the community to return her to him, and when they
   refused gave them three weeks to change their minds, threatening violence
   if they did not.

   Since they were basically pacifistic and did not have the skills to defend
   their community and Rayesta from Wesved's thugs, the Chapel sent one of
   their most trusted men, Tychel, to complain to the authorities in the
   South Lending. These, however, told him it was out of their jurisdiction,
   since the Chapel was beyond the borders of the Brastor Holding (perhaps
   acting under the influence of Polam Wesved). Desperate, Tychel sought out
   a group of adventurers, on his own, to bring them back to protect the
   community. On the way to Blackstone Chapel they were ambushed, but most
   survived, and even the fatalities were resurrected.^[13]

   After a furious debate, the community decided that it was morally
   permissible for them to hire the adventurers to defend the community.
   There were several attacks, which were beaten off at the cost of several
   party members (including at least Gim and Cormac). However, the party
   members were resurrected by the grateful community's deity, and eventually
   gave up this approach to regaining Rayesta.

   When they returned to the South Lending, the party was arrested since they
   had been accused by Polam Wesved of stealing a valuable slave (Rayesta)
   and killing his henchmen who were (he claimed) in lawful pursuit of her.
   Unfortunately for Wesved, the judge whose compliance he had bought was
   replaced at the last minute by the new Laird of the South Lending, and the
   final decision was against him.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed sometime in November and/or December 1985.

5.5. The Search for Jomanal

   (This scenario was a solo adventure for Gim Torson.) Gim Torson was
   summoned to Balour Shaw's tower by a talking owl to repay some of the
   debts Gim had incurred as a student of Shaw's magic. After the usual
   confusing preliminaries, Balour Shaw sent Gim out searching for Jomanal,
   an adventurer fairly well known in Seagate, who disappeared while working
   for Balour Shaw some time before.

   Gim followed his trail and found out that Jomanal disappeared in the
   mountains near Crystal Springs, about a month before the party killed the
   Ogres in that area, apparently in search of a treasure. It turned out that
   the map that the party found amongst the ogres' loot belonged to Jomanal,
   and was the map to the treasure for which Jomanal was looking. Balour Shaw
   also thought the map would lead to something for which he had long sought.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed sometime in December 1985, possibly on the 11th.

5.6. The Stronghold of Sassym

   The party set out to find the treasure Jomanal thought lay at the end of
   the map, and Balour Shaw asked them to keep an eye out for a particular
   book in which he was interested.

   They ran into some slight problems on the way out, because Kalo Bibkins
   had stolen the purse of an extremely important, not to mention malicious
   and wealthy, nobleman (committing the infamous and almost legendary grand
   theft pickpocket) slightly before they were scheduled to leave. He was
   vigorously sought by the town guards, but with the help of the Thieves
   Guild (for which he paid dearly) he was smuggled out of town in the
   carcass of a slaughtered animal and joined the rest of the party on their
   trek into the wilderness, although they made him travel downwind for
   several days, until the stench subsided. Following the hints on the map,
   they finally discovered a hidden stronghold at the head of the Tiana
   River, east of Carzala.

   When they tried to enter the stronghold, they were attacked by a Water
   Elemental in a pool beside the entrance. Kalo's pony was frightened and
   fell into the pool with Kalo astride it. Gim attacked the elemental with a
   lightning bolt since that was the party's most effective magical offense,
   and badly damaged the elemental, but it also damaged Kalo and the pony,
   both now involuntarily swimming in the pool. The blast electrocuted the
   pony, but by some miracle Kalo survived, barely. After searching around
   some more, they found another entrance, an rock-lined shaft down into the
   ground. Boswt slipped from the slime-covered hand and footholds while
   climbing down the shaft and died.

   The stronghold had been deserted for centuries, during which various foul
   creatures had moved in. After a few amusing incidents with hallucinogenic
   mushrooms and fungi, the party found a large room, in the center of which
   was a large pentacle and inside that a silvery but semi-transparent dome.
   Under the dome was a beautiful young woman, apparently asleep, and the
   book which Balour Shaw sought. The dome was impenetrable to all their
   efforts to open it.

   They returned to Balour Shaw, who accompanied them back to the stronghold
   and opened the dome. The woman remained entranced. On the way back to
   civilization they were twice attacked, once by six men led by an assassin
   (who turned out to be carrying a strange carved gold coin) and once by a
   necromancer who led six other men. With the help of Balour Shaw they
   survived. During one of the attacks Basgoot's sword, Narung, began to hum;
   the person he had just struck screamed, then shriveled up and was
   seemingly absorbed by the sword. Basgoot's eyes turned completely black,
   the blade of the sword glowed blindingly, and then Basgoot's eyes closed,
   he said “oh”, and he dropped to the ground. He was unconscious till the
   party returned to civilization.^[14]

   When they left Balour Shaw he was researching how to wake the woman. When
   Basgoot finally awoke, his eyes were normal again.

   Magic.  During this adventure the party picked up a massive book, which
   Balour Shaw claimed, six unreadable books, which were sold, a ring, a
   horn, a rod of lightning, eight vials of healing potion, and two vials of
   invisibility. All of the vials were used up rather quickly.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 11th and 25th of January 1986, and the
   15th of February 1986.

5.7. The Arrest of the Party

   Alas, Kalo brought his past crashing down upon himself and the rest of the
   party. Upon returning to Seagate, Kalo sent a taunting letter to the
   nobleman whom he had pickpocketed. Unfortunately for Kalo, the nobleman
   had no sense of humor, and hired a bounty hunter to track Kalo down. The
   bounty hunter did, and delivered Kalo to the local dungeon and an eagerly
   awaiting torturer.

   Under torture, Kalo incriminated the party in his earlier escape from
   Seagate, and the party was arrested by order of Amur Gibbetsmaster. The
   party was forced to watch Kalo's beheading, a singularly botched
   exhibition, since the executioner was blind drunk. It took him six blows
   to kill Kalo, and even then Kalo's head was not completely severed from
   his body. The surviving party members were themselves offered a choice:
   death, or a geas to scout out a caravan trail across the southern desert
   to the semi-mythical kingdoms of the Five Sisters.^[15] They choose the
   geas, of course.

   Two other prisoners, Jamie Molson and Tekhadun, were also sent south with
   them. Jamie was betrayed to the Seagate city guards by a rival thief, and
   Tekhadun had killed a nobleman's son in a tavern brawl. (Incidentally, the
   ruler of Carzala was out of the country during this whole affair, and the
   punishment was the idea of Amur Gibbetsmaster, the hanging judge of
   Seagate.)

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 1st of March, 1986.

5.8. To the Mountain Wall

   The party took the plains route to the South, but were forced into the
   ominous Thornwood Forest by the Horse Nomads. In the forest they stumbled
   upon a clearing, in which there were several statues and a tiny hut. The
   wizened old woman who lived in the hut introduced herself as Mother
   Thistle (“Mother Thistle Knows!”), and invited them inside. Surprisingly
   enough they all fit.

   Once they were inside she spoke obscurely of three mages who had touched
   the party: The Mage, The Necromancer, and Balour Shaw, saying that they
   had angered the first two twice each. She then went on to say that the
   Hand of the Otherworld had touched all of the party, and had possessed one
   of them. She warned that the dead could help them, but could also destroy,
   and that the desert's most powerful dangers were also the least obvious.

   When they left her hut the next day, they found they were on the southern
   edge of the forest, though there was no way they could have traveled that
   far before finding the hut.

   South of the Forest was the Vale of Morin, once the site of fierce battles
   against the Horse Nomads. During their first day in the Vale the party saw
   the Horse Nomads who had chased them earlier, but the nomads, though they
   obviously saw the party, did not enter the Vale. Later, the party was
   accosted by a group of Ghosts, who asked about the state of their city,
   Korsepolis. Upon learning that Korsepolis had been in ruins for centuries,
   the Ghosts traded the party a promise of safe passage across the Vale in
   return for the party's oath to reestablish trade with the Kingdoms of the
   Five Sisters and resettle Korsepolis. Since the former they were already
   Geased to do and the later was a matter for the future, they agreed, as
   the best bargain in the situation. The Ghosts also told the party that
   Korsepolis had the best roads through the mountains to the desert, and so
   would be the easiest route to the desert.^[16]

   The party found Korsepolis in the mouth of a valley that led up into the
   mountains. They snuck through the city after dark, almost blundered into a
   war between orcs and hobgoblins, and then followed the road out of
   Korsepolis into the mountains. The road crossed the mountains and ended at
   a tower overlooking a one thousand foot drop to the desert: this was the
   Mountain Wall from which these mountains took their name.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 24th of March, 1986.

5.9. The Giant's Watchtower

   They were invited into the tower by a elderly, pleasant seeming if
   somewhat quirky Fire Giant, Slehad He told them about the tower, and the
   track that descended to the desert, and mentioned that he left Carzala
   three hundred years ago, soon after it was settled by humans. However,
   during the night he attacked the party, and it was only with the greatest
   of struggles that they defeated him. They explored the tower and found
   that his larder was stocked with human and elvish corpses.

   In the tower they also found a curious clay ball, a chest, and a small
   box. The small box proved to contain a moderate quantity of an unknown
   drug. Jamie broke the ball, releasing a strange shadow-like creature, and
   found that the ball also enclosed a key. When Jamie used the key to open
   the chest the key bit him. Later, Jamie ingested some of the drug from the
   box and experienced strange hallucinations and euphoria. Cormac summoned
   the Giant's spirit back to explain the strange contents of the chest, but
   the Giant's answers were obscure at best, and not of much use.

   Magic.  During this adventure the party picked up a scroll with three
   spells inscribed upon it, broke open one small clay ball which turned out
   to have a biting key and a shadow creature in it, and ten other clay
   balls, one of which was later broken when warring against the Queen of the
   Thri-Kreen and released another shadow creature.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed on the 26th of March, 1986.

5.10. The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

   The party left the watchtower and climbed down the cliff to the desert.
   Once out upon the desert they were attacked by strange insect-like
   humanoids, but managed to defeat them. They came to an oasis, but found it
   inhabited by the Kaval-tu-Ata, a tribe of Auhaami, the nomads of the Gatar
   Shey (the Southern name for the desert). According to the customs of the
   tribe, they were allowed to enter the oasis after the party's champion
   (Basgoot) defeated the tribe's champion, Harun. They found out that the
   insect-like humanoids were the Thri-Kreen, a race found in many places on
   the desert. The party stayed with the tribe for a while. The sheik,
   Yavidi, hired them to retrieve some religious items, the Cup and the
   Talisman, from Batik-al-Yazum, a local wizard, who had stolen them from
   the tribe. In return, the sheik offered to outfit them for their journey
   over the desert and to supply a guide, and told them Batik-al-Yazum and
   most of his servants were absent.

   The party accepted, and set out for Batik-al-Yazum's tower in Sumaldi, a
   ruined city and oasis a few days travel away. They were attacked by a
   party of ghouls in the city, and during the fight Basgoot's sword again
   began to hum. This time, both Basgoot and the ghoul screamed, at the same
   pitch, and Basgoot changed his armor turned black, his skin became the
   color of yellowed ivory, he grew half a foot taller, and the ghoul
   shriveled up and blew away. He and the sword killed five more ghouls,
   absorbing each one, and then Basgoot attacked Jamie, the nearest member of
   the party, slicing through the magical Wall of Force with which Cormac had
   encircled the party. Basgoot tried to resist the influence of the sword
   and the rest of the party managed to pull him off Jamie, whereupon he
   collapsed.

   The party continued with its mission, and succeeded in reclaiming the Cup
   and the Talisman, killing several of Batik-al-Yazum's servants in the
   process. They returned to the nomad camp, where they continued learning
   how to live in the desert, how to ride the lizards that were the desert's
   most common form of transportation, and how to speak the language of the
   South.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed on the 28th of March, 1986.

5.11. The Attack on Tuath's Rest

   The Thri-Kreen, the insectoids who had ambushed the party when they first
   ventured upon the desert, attacked the nomads in force one evening,
   carrying off fifteen men and thirty women, along with one-hundred
   thirty-seven herd beasts. The party agreed to accompany the nomads on a
   raid to Tuath's Rest, where the Thri-Kreen were living in caves in the
   hills, to recover the captives before they were eaten.

   The party helped scout and plan the attack, and Gim Torson called up a
   storm as a distraction, but he succeeded beyond his wildest dreams, and it
   became a race to defeat the Thri-Kreen and recover the prisoners before
   the caves in which they were imprisoned flooded. Winther, who summoned a
   fire elemental to attack the Thri-Kreen, was also successful, but ended up
   with an intelligent, self-willed, and very independent, if immature and
   brash, fire elemental, who assisted in the assault only for the chaotic
   fun of it.

   During the assault on the caves, the Thri-Kreen Queen was on the verge of
   defeating the party and the nomads with her magic and guards, when Basgoot
   in desperation surrendered himself to the control of the sword. The sword
   killed the Queen and then cracked open the mountain, starting an
   earthquake that collapsed the Thri-Kreen caves. Luckily, all the party and
   the surviving nomads escaped the cave-in, carrying Basgoot, who had again
   collapsed into unconsciousness.

   Basgoot had again changed, and now had pointed ears, hardened talon-like
   nails, an inhuman look to his face, deep crimson skin slightly scaled,
   black hair, and completely black eyes. He was seven feet tall, and weighed
   400 pounds. His skin had also become incredibly tough.

   During the attack Jamie broke open one of the strange clay balls from the
   chest they had found in the Fire Giant's Tower, releasing another of the
   shadow creatures.

   Magic.  During this adventure the party picked up fourteen
   semi-transparent resinous jewels in nine colors. (These turned out to be
   ten point powerstones, and each of the following people have one: Gim,
   Shay, Basgoot, Winter, and Derendeth.) They also got twenty
   semi-transparent, flexible bladders full of viscous liquid in eight
   colors, all packed into a small box of smooth, reddish, slightly grainy
   material.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed on the 5th of April, 1986.

5.12. From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   The nomads moved to Tuath's Rest after the water subsided, partially to
   prevent another hive of Thri-Kreen from moving in. The party finally left
   for the south, taking with them a chest of treasure that the nomads had
   found in the ravine, which they agreed to trade for various things the
   tribe wanted in return for a share of the profits. Their guide was Dahlil,
   who had visited the Kingdoms of the Five Sisters before. They took a road
   he was not very familiar with because the more familiar road led to two
   kingdoms currently at war where the party would not have been welcome.
   Along the way they encountered sand-storms and various unfriendly denizens
   of the desert.

   One of the oasis they found was surrounded by nomad tents, but the
   inhabitants (the Lakal tribe) and all their animals had been beaten to
   death by blunt instruments, and the well had been fouled with their
   bodies. Desperately in need of water, the party headed south to the
   nearest oasis. Along the way they were constantly harassed by creatures
   made of sand. They finally reached the oasis, which was located in a small
   range of mountains; while they were at the oasis they were attacked by a
   Roc, and some of their pack and riding lizards were killed.

   Fleeing south, they found that their way out of the mountains and onto the
   desert was blocked by a huge sandwhip, a creature that lives under the
   sand and entangles any animals that walk over it in its many tentacles.
   This one was huge, over three hundred feet in diameter. Unable to return
   the way they come because of the Roc and other monsters, they first tried
   to poison the sandwhip.^[17] When that was unsuccessful, Gim Torson
   summoned the Roc, although he was unable to control it; the sandwhip
   attacked the Roc, and in the ensuing battle the party slipped by.

   Crossing a huge salt flats, the Salt Sea, they came to an inhabited oasis,
   Sev-a-kalam, where they stopped briefly to rest and recuperate.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed on the 31st of April, 1986.

5.13. Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

   In Sev-a-kalam, the party was warned that the southernmost reaches of the
   desert were plagued by bandits, so they joined a Auhaami caravan leaving
   for the next oasis, ten days away. Five days out, they were attacked by
   maniacs, and several people on the caravan, including Tekhadun and one
   other character,^[18] were captured, and several loaded camels are also
   stolen. The caravan master, Djavh, identified the attackers by the
   eight-pointed cross tattooed on one of them as Arakanisi, worshipers of
   the demon Arakan, King of Chaos, who requires human sacrifices.

   Following the Arakanisi, the party and the warriors from the caravan found
   a series of caves in the Salt Sea, but alas! only guards remained: the
   captives had already been taken elsewhere. Investigating, they killed the
   guards and found several corpses. In one room, apparently formed from the
   ribs of a huge skeleton, they found an altar in front of a statue of
   beautiful artistry but unsettling aspect. Behind the altar was a huge red
   vertical stone block across the room, in the center of which was a
   vertical whirlpool of flame. Tracks in the blood and dust of the room
   showed that this was where the Arakanisi and the remaining captives had
   gone.

   The party and several Auhaami crossed through the flames, and found
   themselves in a strange place: the sky was green, the grass blue, and a
   river was red; a miniature sun, moon, and stars circled in the sky, and
   the clouds were white, blue, red, brown, and black, and in constant rapid
   motion. This was Makad-al-Arakan, the world of Arakan. Cormac drank from
   the red river and began to praise Arakan. (Cormac experienced these fits
   intermittently thereafter for a long time, until cured by Mordraug.)

   Following the tracks the party came to an amphitheater, in the center of
   which was a throne. Basgoot sat on the throne and was blasted by
   lightning, but survived. The party then went back along the road and took
   the other fork, which led them to a steep-walled valley containing a
   heavily guarded prison-like structure, which turned out to be where those
   abducted from the caravan were being held.

   While attempting to bypass the guards along the road to where the
   prisoners were held, Basgoot called upon Narung, his cursed magic sword. A
   huge demonic figure burst forth from the sword, breaking it into pieces,
   and grew until his head touched the sky. Basgoot fell into a coma and his
   body became rigid, but he lost some of his more demonic exterior
   characteristics. He shrank to six foot four and a mere three hundred
   pounds, his skin returned to the color of yellowed ivory, and he lost most
   of the scaled areas on his skin and completely lost his talons. The sky
   cracked open and another huge demonic figure stepped in and the two
   figures began to fight.

   In the confusion and destruction of the ensuing battle the party rescued
   the prisoners, who included many not from the caravan. They all then fled
   through the rapidly disintegrating world back towards the entrance,
   carrying their wounded and unconscious, with Basgoot still clinging to the
   shards of Narung. Alas, upon reaching the entrance they found it closed.
   An ancient man, one of the prisoners, said that it could only be opened by
   sacrifice, and offered himself: Gim Torson, one of the few still conscious
   and capable of making decisions, instantly, without the slightest
   hesitation or remorse, accepted the old man's sacrifice and chopped his
   head off, leaving the corpse spouting blood over the altar. The entrance
   opened and they all passed through to the caves in the desert.

   There was not enough water with the caravan for all the prisoners, so some
   were left in the caves while the caravan headed for Akhisar, the closest
   city, to report the actions of the Arakanisi and arrange transportation
   for the other prisoners. Alas, by the time they had returned to the cave
   with transport and Akhisar's warriors, those they had left behind had been
   smashed against the sides and ceilings of the caves. Basgoot remained
   mind-burnt, and Cormac still had fits frequently.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed on the 7th of June, 1986.

5.14. Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

   The characters were interviewed by the captain of Akhisar's city guard
   about the events in the caves and beyond. Impressed, he suggested they
   seek work with the city guard, or as warriors of the Bey, the local ruler.
   The party stayed in Akhisar for a while, getting Cormac cured by a
   sorcerer and resting up. Basgoot, unfortunately, remained mind-burnt.

   However, one day they met a ragged old man, seemingly a water or wine
   seller, who quoted poetry (not to their taste) at them, offered them a
   drink from his skin, and spoke to them most familiarly and obscurely,
   saying that he came to help a follower fallen on evil times, and asked
   them to lead him to their fallen comrade. When they did, he gave Basgoot a
   drink, and Basgoot became roaring-and-falling-down drunk. Winther asked
   for a drink, which the old man gladly supplied him, but upon drinking
   Winther fell into stupor and unconsciousness. Basgoot remained drunk for a
   day, but when he sobered up he had recovered from his mind-burn.

   After a few days in the city a merchant invited them to visit and talk of
   their journey. Also impressed, he told them they might easily find work
   for him or for the merchants' council.

   They eventually went to work for the city guard. After a few weeks
   patrolling in the city, the captain of the guard sent them out to kill
   some monsters that were troubling caravans along the trade route. Along
   the way they rescued a Jann^[19] from a group of Brigands. The grateful
   Jann gave Basgoot an amulet. Tracking the monsters down, they found three
   Chimera. After a fierce battle the party killed the monsters, but Tekhadun
   died (bravely, of course) in the fight.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed sometime between the 7th of June, 1986
   and the 9th or 10th of July, 1986.

5.15. The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban

   Two weeks later the party left Akhisar for the nearest of the Kingdoms of
   the Five Sisters, and traveled with a caravan through the Saddyahi-Ashban,
   the mountains between the desert and the Kingdoms of the Five Sisters. The
   caravan was attacked twice by bandits during the trip, and every second
   night a member of the caravan was found dead, apparently killed by someone
   in the caravan. A Jann war party also accosted the caravan; they were
   raiding in retaliation for bloody, savage attacks by human bandits, but
   when they found out Basgoot had saved the life of their sheik's son (from
   who came the amulet), the Jann allowed the caravan to pass, after the
   party gave their oath to track down the bandits who killed the Jannee.
   Finally, they reached the Castle of the Desert Gate (sometimes called
   Castle Ashban by the hasty), at the pass out of the mountains into the
   plains of the Five Sisters. There the killer was discovered: one of the
   caravan guards was a were-tiger, who went on a rampage through the castle.
   In the ensuing fight the were-tiger was killed, but several party members
   were infected and Korbel Noir died.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 9th or 10th of July, 1986.

5.16. Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

   The party left for the nearest city of any size, Marv Dashlam, hoping to
   be cured. There they visited the Mages' Guild, but the cost of a cure was
   beyond their means. The next morning they were visited by old, shabbily
   dressed man who informed them that if they wished freed of their curse
   they could visit a particular house that evening. During the day they
   spoke with the merchants of the city to fulfill their geas, but the
   merchants were not interested in trade along such a risky route as through
   the Gatar Shey. The merchants seemed very complacent and unaggressive.

   That night they visited the house, where a mysterious man (who told them
   to call him Albad, though this was obviously not his real name) of obvious
   authority offered to have them cured if they would kidnap a certain holy
   man named Hajj and take him back with them to their homeland, under no
   circumstances allowing him to come to harm. Albad said they had until the
   next evening to consider. The next day they were approached by a priest of
   the local religion, who spoke of an evil heretic, a fiend in human form,
   and asked them to rid the city of this menace. They did not accept, and
   the priest left angrily, hoping the gods would send them their reward.

   That night they returned to the house and accepted the mysterious man's
   offer; he had them cured by a master mage, then Geased to kidnap the holy
   man. They were joined the next day by Jubad, who somehow knew of their
   errand and offered to help them find Hajj. With his help they did find
   Hajj, who was hidden in the magic garden of one of his followers, but when
   they went to abduct Hajj, Jubad attacked them and attempted to kill Hajj.
   Hajj was injured, but they managed to save him. Jubad escaped, and soon
   the city was up in arms, looking for the villains who had attacked their
   holy man, and perhaps killed him in the process.

   The priests, of course, still wanted Hajj dead.

   Magic.  Albad gave the characters some magic items to assist them with
   their task and to pay them for doing it. They received a knobed cane three
   feet long that was invested with Enchanted Sleep, a chain one-and-a-half
   feet long invested with Binding, and Winther, Basgoot, Cormac, Jamie, and
   Gim received scrolls, each with two spells.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 22nd of July, 1986.

5.17. Escape from Marv Dashlam

   After the botched kidnapping of the prophet Hajj, Tesla, Jamie, Winther,
   and Gim went into hiding with the unconscious and badly wounded prophet,
   while the others returned to their lodgings. Two days later Hajj regained
   consciousness, and agreed to leave the city with the party, more concerned
   with defusing the continuing riots than with his own preferences. The
   party left before the guard found out where they had hidden, but had to
   fight their way out of the city. Surprisingly, they did not seriously
   injure anyone in their flight. They fled across the mountains towards
   Akhisar, where they were well regarded and where they hoped they would be
   safely out of the jurisdiction of both the priests of Marv Dashlam and the
   city's ruler.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on 19th of August, 1986.

5.18. Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   After traveling across the mountains, fleeing with the prophet, they
   entered the gates of Akhisar at dusk and were greeted by Abu Darruh one of
   their friends in the city guard. He told them of the exciting recent
   occurrences in Marv Dashlam, and suggested they put up at the Prophet's
   End, an inn of good quality and reasonable cost with a reputation for
   discretion. Despite the ominous name, they decided to do so, as the desert
   was not passable at that time of year, not to mention their ill health and
   general exhaustion. As it turned out they remained in Akhisar for about
   six months, speaking with the local merchants about trade, and working for
   the city guard. They were visited by a Jann, who told them that the
   bandits who murdered the Jannee had been killed by an Akhisar patrol, so
   they were freed of that oath.

   Half-way through their stay, one morning they found an eight-armed cross
   of blood on the floor of the common room of their suite at the inn. During
   the day they learned that other crosses had appeared in many houses
   throughout the city. Later they were visited by the captain of the guard,
   who told them that the crosses were threats from the Arakanisi. Later, a
   message arrived from the Albad, the mysterious man who had hired them in
   Marv Dashlam, warning that the priests of that city were still looking for
   them.

   Several nights later, Shay Uvall, another resident of the inn and sometime
   merchant and mercenary, saw a stranger coming down the stairs from the
   party's rooms. The second time he saw this happening, he warned the party
   they were being observed. A few days later, an assassination attempt was
   made on Hajj in the market, and two days later an assassination attempt
   was made upon all of the characters while they slept, unable to wake
   because of an enchantment. Shay Uvall heard the intruders and came to the
   party's rescue. He struggle with the assassins until his efforts to wake
   the party succeeded, and together they managed to kill the assassins.
   During the attack Jamie Molson died, but he had enough money with him to
   be resurrected. It was decided that Shay Uvall will accompany them North.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 15th of November, 1986.

5.19. Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   They left Akhisar one day after the second assassination attempt,
   accompanied by Shay Uvall and escorting Hajj and three merchant emissaries
   to the north. The party encountered no serious problems in the southern
   Gatar Shey, and reached Sev-a-kalam without trouble.

   There the locals warned them that the monsters of the Salt Sea were
   restless. Nonetheless they set out, and one day as they were traveling
   across a salt flat a huge worm-like beast suddenly broke up through the
   ground in front of them, arched over them, and broke back into the ground
   behind them.

   The salt surface between the two holes cracked open and dropped the party
   twenty-five yards into salt water, where the huge worm swam leisurely
   towards the party, obviously congratulating itself on the fine breakfast
   it had found. Just then, however, several small boats loomed up out of the
   dark and one of the creatures in them threw an object into the water in
   front of the worm. The object exploded with an impressive noise, blinding
   flames, and a truly foul stench, and the worm left quickly. The party
   wished it could too.

   The creatures in the boats seemed much like goblins, only nicer, and
   immediately entered into a heated conversation amongst themselves. When
   the party figured out the debased dialect of Auhaami the creatures were
   using they discovered that the creatures were trying to decide whether the
   party members were intelligent, in which case they should be saved, or
   not, in which case they would provide breakfast and lunch, and maybe
   supper. After some initial difficulty, the party convinced most of the
   creatures, or Jetaleem as they called themselves, that they were indeed
   intelligent. (Several Jetaleem remained unconvinced, not surprisingly.)
   Gh'yal, the leader of the Jetaleem, told the party that he would resupply
   them and lead them to the northern edge of the Salt Sea if they would
   depose Moghu, the evil sorcerous tyrant that was oppressing them. (Imagine
   a clean goblin. Imagine a clean goblin spouting Marxist rhetoric. Imagine
   a clean goblin spouting Marxist rhetoric at you as you float in a salt
   lake infested with huge worms that have shown a distinct interest in
   having you for breakfast.)

   The party, of course, agreed, took the oath, and snuck into the despot's
   underground stronghold, where they were pestered by an imp and nearly
   killed by Sand Golems. They succeeded, however, in destroying the despot's
   magical talisman, driving both the despot and his Sand Golems mad. The
   Jetaleem leader kept his word and escorted the party safely to the
   northern edge of the Salt Sea.

   The party headed north to the nearest oasis, hoping that the Roc and the
   Sandwhip that they had found there last time would have killed each other
   off. However, when they reached the ravine where the Sandwhip lived they
   found the bones of the Roc, and further up the ravine the tell-tale
   depression in the sand of a Sandwhip in residence. Luckily, there was a
   twenty foot wide area between the outermost reach of the Sandwhip and the
   wall of the ravine that our heroes could squeeze through before the
   sandwhip could move to grab them.^[20]

   Heading north again, they found that the well in the next oasis (which had
   been filled with the corpses of the Lakal tribe the last time they passed
   through) had been cleared and cleaned. When they reached Tuath's Rest it
   was obvious that their nomad friends had prospered in their new location.
   While the party was in the south, several of the nomads had scouted the
   trails up over the Mountain Wall, and found that only the one from
   Korsepolis (over which the characters had originally traveled) was
   passable by animals, and that only barely. Five of the young warriors had
   decided to seek fame and fortune, and the party agreed to take them north
   as they go. The sheik of the tribe also mentioned that some of his
   warriors had seen strange creatures seemingly formed of shadow, and on a
   few occasions had been attacked by these creatures.

   The party climbed the Mountain Wall and traveled through the mountains
   without incident, but when they entered Korsepolis they stumbled directly
   into another battle amongst the local humanoids but escaped without
   serious injury. Crossing the Vale of Morin they were again accosted by the
   ghosts, who demanded a status report. When they left the Vale they were
   attacked by Horse Nomads and driven into the Thornwood Forest, where they
   soon stumbled into the clearing with the tiny hut and Mother Thistle. They
   spent the night there, and she told them of the many changes in the North
   since they left, all bad.

   When they left in the morning they found themselves on the North edge of
   the forest. When they reached Arn's Ferry Balour Shaw warned them that
   there had been an increase in disorder in Carzala and that the party's
   journey would disrupt the power structure. Gim agreed to become Balour
   Shaw's apprentice.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 21st of November, 1986.

5.20. Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

   Upon reaching Seagate they were ushered into the Count's presence, where
   he congratulated them, and restored to them their property which had been
   seized illegally by the court when they were exiled. He also explained
   that there had been many irregular legal aspects to their arrest, trial,
   and sentencing, and that he had reversed their sentences for that reason.

   He rewarded them for their journey by giving each of them dwarven armor,
   and arranged a meeting of the major merchants to hear about the journey
   and the prospects for trade. At the meeting they were heckled by , whose
   low opinion of them found ready favor with some disgruntled members of the
   court, though not with the Count. During the meeting a mysterious
   explosion in Arn's Ferry was mentioned; it had destroyed the ancient
   Giant's tower where Balour Shaw lived. (Gim was dismayed: of what use was
   his apprenticeship now?) After the meeting Wesved sent men to kill the
   party members, but the party dispatched the assassins with ease, and
   Wesved's head ended on a pole when the Count investigated his actions.

   The party found that it had returned after four years to a country in
   disorder: bandits and outlaws were everywhere, travel had become
   difficult, pirates were ruining trade with the North, smuggling had
   increased dramatically, drug use had run rampant (and not just in the
   cities, causing many to worry that the work-force of Carzala would be
   ruined), people were disappearing from cities and farms, and a group of
   Barons, including the Baron of Seagate, opposed the Count in everything he
   did. No one was able to understand why the country had deteriorated so
   rapidly. How had things come to this? Had the gods looked on Carzala with
   disfavor? Was the whole land cursed?

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed on the 21st of November, 1986.

5.21. Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   One evening not long after their return to Seagate, the party was relaxing
   in their house^[21] when one of them heard a knocking on the shutter of
   his window. Upon opening the window, he found Derenedeth hanging from the
   roof. He swung in and said that it was best that he was not seen with the
   party. When the whole group had gathered, he asked them if they were
   interested in revenge against Amur Gibbetsmaster, the judge who forced
   them into the journey to the south. They were, and agreed to meet
   Derenedeth later in an abandoned warehouse. He then left by the same route
   he entered.

   At the meeting, he showed the characters papers that proved that the judge
   wanted to send a group south for his own purposes, and chose the party
   because they were convenient. Other papers indicated that Gibbetsmaster
   was involved with smuggling and perhaps the drug shipments that were so
   devastating the cities. Unfortunately, the papers were not legal proof of
   Gibbetsmaster's involvement, but they did mention a possible landing of
   smuggling ships, and the party decided to investigate that in hopes of
   finding out more. Amazingly, Kalo Bibkins also showed up at this meeting
   and behaved in a very eccentric manner. He offered no reason for his
   continued existence, and no one felt brave enough to ask.

   Arriving at the cove where the landing was scheduled the party found that
   the ships had already arrived, and were about to be unloaded. Using
   stealth, distractions, and the help of the unnerving Kalo Bibkins, they
   killed the lookouts and wiped out most of the smugglers before the
   smugglers realized what was happening. During the fight a large crate was
   dropped on Tesla from a cave fifty feet up a cliff, breaking most of the
   bones in her body. One of the ships turned out to be a pirate and the
   other turned out to be owned directly by Amur Gibbetsmaster; both were
   packed full of drugs to be smuggled into the country and had recently been
   fitted with slave chains. The ships carried papers incriminating
   Gibbetsmaster in slave trading, drug running, and smuggling valuable goods
   out of the country. Three hidden caves on the cliff side turned out to be
   full of smuggled goods.

   Following leads from the few surviving smugglers, the party found the two
   hundred slaves Gibbetsmaster intended to ship out this trip, guarded by
   twenty-five ruffians. The party freed the slaves and returned to Seagate
   to inform the Count of Gibbetsmaster's treachery, having left the uncanny
   Kalo to guard the ships. On the way they were attacked by a group of
   ruffians roused by a guard who had escaped the slave coffle, but the party
   survived the attack and wiped out the ruffians, leaving no one to warn
   Gibbetsmaster.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed in two or so sessions sometime in 1987.

5.22. The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

   Upon reaching Seagate they immediately warned the Count of Amur
   Gibbetsmaster's perfidy. The count asked them to discretely abduct Amur
   Gibbetsmaster from the Baron of Seagate's country castle. He hoped to
   prevent the civil war that would undoubtedly result if the Count were to
   ask for Gibbetsmaster's head and the Baron were to refuse.

   The characters' succeeded, much to everybody's surprise, and brought
   Gibbetsmaster to justice in Seagate, where he was interrogated by the
   Count's chief Mage. It was revealed that he was part of a conspiracy to
   weaken the count and had been for several years. Unfortunately, he did not
   reveal the names of any of the other leaders, although he did reveal that
   the conspiracy was led by a powerful mage, and listed many of the landing
   places of the smugglers and pirates and his contacts with them. Amur
   Gibbetsmaster died after making a signed confession.^[22]

   The characters were greatly rewarded for their services. First they were
   given the captured ships and cargo. Next Derenedeth and Kalo were pardoned
   for any crimes they might have committed in the past. Finally the party
   was given Korsepolis, the Vale of Morin, and the Mountain Wall to hold,
   clean of danger, and rebuild for trade with the south, as a new barony.
   This latter proved especially unpopular with some of the court, who were
   sure they were more deserving and better fitted for this honor and
   responsibility: after all, who were the adventurers but a bunch of jumped
   up thugs? Tesla started the long road to recovery, but decided to give up
   active adventuring, at least for the time being.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed sometime in 1987.

5.23. Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

   After the abduction of Amur Gibbetsmaster and its aftermath, the party
   returned to the cove to claim the ships, which the Count had awarded them.
   The Count sent along a crew for each ship and a few marines to help and to
   make sure that all the deadly drugs were destroyed (and to make sure he
   got his eight percent of the treasure). When the party started taking
   goods out of the caves they were attacked by a Phantasm in each cave.
   Later they were attacked by huge spiders, which captured several of the
   crew and Cormac and Winther.^[23] The spiders retreated into tunnels
   hidden beyond false walls at the ends of the smugglers' caves and the
   party followed, leaving the majority of the marines and crew to continue
   loading the ships.

   These tunnels led to a huge maze of crooked tunnels, infested by spiders
   and other strange creatures. The party rescued some of the captured
   marines and sailors, along with two halflings and a massive, grey,
   otherworldly being (Evan), but the others had been taken to a huge
   circular room of worship. This room was dominated by ever changing views
   of other places on the walls, an altar where the spiders where sacrificing
   their captives, and a gigantic demonic spider whose limbs spanned the
   room. Most of the prisoners were freed in the ensuing battle, but the
   walls of the room kept fading in and out, and one of the marines stumbled
   into one of the scenes on the wall and vanished. Ominously, the altar was
   marked with an eight-pointed star.

   Magic.  During this adventure the party picked up 10 vials containing
   healing potions, three one-inch diameter bronze balls invested with
   Fireball, Imploding Fireball, and Invisibility, five quart jars of very
   powerful acid, three books on alchemy, a book on magic experimental
   techniques procedures (which also contained a parchment with an incomplete
   spell), a spell book, and three glass balls filled with an opaque mixture.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 1st of January, 1988.

5.24. The Smugglers' Ships

   The party returned to Seagate from Smugglers' Cove with two ships loaded
   with treasure. Once there they investigated selling the non-drug portion
   of the cargo in Carzala (the Count had forbidden them to sell the drugs in
   Carzala). After talking with several merchants, including Vlad
   Sharp-knife, they decided to keep the ships and to start their own
   merchant company. They hired crews and officers and so forth and started
   the company, with Winther and Gim taking the lead in keeping track of all
   the details, and Vlad Sharp-knife providing occasional consulting. After
   Tesla recovered she began taking a great deal of interest in the business.
   They sold the non-lethal drugs in the North, against the wishes and
   vehement protests of Winther, but to the great enrichment of the party.

   Gim made a trip to Arn's Ferry, where he discovered that Ilene, young
   woman whom the party rescued from the Force Dome in Sassym's Stronghold,
   was rebuilding Balour Shaw's tower with the help of some Dwarves. She had
   been away at the time of the explosion and believed Balour Shaw dead when
   she heard of it. Back in Seagate, Gim visited the Count's archives, and
   discovered that the tower was standing when Carzala was settled by humans,
   and inhabited then as well.

   The party went to Dhairrhuwyth, a local mage, to get some magic items
   identified.^[24] The mage turned out to have known Balour Shaw, and had
   been investigating the explosion of Balour Shaw's tower. He had found out
   that a single gold coin with a eight-pointed star was found on top the
   rubble, that Balour Shaw had killed three assassins carrying similar coins
   several years ago when the assassins were after a party of adventurers,
   and that one of the major symbols of the Arkanian cult is an eight-pointed
   star. He asked the party to accompany him to the upcoming Arkanian
   Festival at Finn's Waste during the solstice, where he hoped to find out
   more about the Arkanians.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 2nd of April, 1988.

5.25. Some Events at Finn's Waste

   The festival at Finn's Waste turned out to be impressive, bringing
   thousands of worshipers from all over Carzala, and much of the preaching
   called on the worshipers to be ready to bring unbelievers to Arkan's
   Throne to be judged, on the coming Day of the Rule of Arkan. The festival
   took place around a huge monolith, carved at the top in the shape of a
   godly head. The party observed that there were caves hidden inside the
   monolith, and snuck inside under cover of invisibility.

   Inside the monolith they found the true center of Arkanian worship and
   discovered it revolved around human sacrifice and demonic worship. In the
   main temple were two huge and unsettling paintings, one of which the
   characters recognized as the view from the Entrance to Makad-al-Arakan,
   the World of the Arakanisi and the other of which they recognized as the
   Hall of the Great Spider from the caves behind the Smugglers' Cove. While
   sneaking about the party overheard a discussion linking the Arkanians to
   the conspiracy of Amur Gibbetsmaster and the death of Balour Shaw. They
   went on to disrupt a ritual intended to call up Arakan, during which they
   killed a few devils, and rescued some prisoners intended for sacrifice.
   One of the prisoners turned out to be Gerrod, the marine who vanished from
   the Spider Hall. On their way out the party collapsed the access tunnel to
   the complex under the monolith. Returning to Seagate, they reported to the
   Count, who sent out troops to capture the Arkanians left at Finn's Waste
   and slapped stiff restrictions on the other Arkanians in the County.

   Knowing the party will have other things to do, Gim and Winther agreed to
   subcontract the exploration of an alternate route to the Vale of Morin to
   a group of adventures calling themselves BAMF, Inc. The count retired
   Gerrod into the party's service at his request, where he quickly became an
   indispensable `butler'.

  Note

   This adventure was probably also gamed on the 2nd of April, 1988.

5.26. The Abandoned Cathedral

   (This scenario was Gamesmastered by N. Alan Bond.) During the night of the
   first day of this scenario, the characters were awakened by a loud rapping
   on their bedroom doors and the snooty voice of Elbain the Small telling
   our heroes to gather in their common room. There the adventures met Amlach
   the Golden who represented the Yester. After Amlach offered a job and a
   reasonable price for the party's services, the adventurers agreed to
   undertake the offered mission. The next morning, our heroes set out on a
   ship provided by the Yester which traveled from Seagate to Swithan's Cove.
   After departing from the boat with the Yester Rabon as their guide, the
   party traveled across the Plain of Desai to a point in the Southern
   Palisades.

   From here the party traveled into the heart of the mountains. Rabon guided
   the party along a trail that was badly deteriorated, but had recently seen
   some use. On the second day of travel in the mountains, the party spotted
   a sentinel fleeing along the trail. The sentinel escaped from the party's
   partial attempt at pursuit. With the Arkons so warned, the party was
   ambushed twice. (The second ambush occurred after the party allowed a
   prisoner to scream during a tortu... ah interrogation session. The party
   was saved during the ambushes by Gim Torson's brilliant fighting
   technique, of course.) After dealing with the ambushes the party found the
   Cathedral.

   When darkness fell, Jamie and Derenedeth eliminated the sentinels on the
   keep's walls which allowed the party to enter the keep and ascend to the
   stairs to the cathedral, with Gim Torson covering the advance of the party
   with his powerful magics. Our heroes were thus able to gain entrance to
   the cathedral and close the portculius with a few encounters with the
   enemy. After a short rest, Rabon took a small magical “boomb”^[25] from
   his pack and planted it next to the entrance of the tunnel. The party then
   followed the corkscrew tunnel into the darkness, pausing only to deposit
   more of Rabon's “boombs”. At the bottom of the tunnel, the party met the
   eternal champion and Rabon reclaimed the sword the champion carried.
   Through here the party traveled through a downshaft to the private
   chambers of the Elite. Here the party planted more bombs, found treasure,
   and harassed a disembodied voice with slight telekinetic powers.

   During their search through the Elite's chambers, the party discovered a
   secret exit which they followed to a cave that led to the sea. Rabon
   activated his bombs and the party then sailed in a small boat back to
   Swithan's Cove and rejoined the ship of the Yester which took them back to
   Seagate.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed in late June or early July, 1988.

5.27. Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   BAMF, Inc. finally returned to Seagate from their exploration of the route
   through the mountains, with a report (see Appendix A, Report from BAMF,
   Inc.) of the route, a rough map, and three Auhaami bearing a message from
   the sheik at Tuath's Rest. BAMF, Inc. traveled through the mountains,
   picking up a old spellcasting hermit along the way. While they were
   crossing the Vale of Morin, they were stopped twice by ghosts asking about
   the re-establishment of the trade routes. In Korsepolis they had to sneak
   through the continuing war between the orcs and the hobgoblins, but found
   out that the humanoids were building crude forts and towers there. They
   finally reached the Giant's Watchtower at the edge of the Mountain Wall,
   where they found a number of Auhaami camped. When the Auhaami learned for
   whom BAMF, Inc. was working, three of them decided to accompany BAMF, Inc.
   on the return journey.

   On the return trip, they traveled through the plains, where they were
   attacked by Horse Nomads and forced into the Thornwood Forest, where they
   were found by an old woman living in a small hut, who said they could call
   her Mother Thistle. She and the hermit healed the injured, bickering
   viciously all the while. When the party reached the Brastor Holding the
   old hermit left them.

   The Auhaami reported that the road from the Mountain Wall to Angbar was
   better than the Korsepolis road^[26] (though the trail down the cliff was
   worse), that the castle in Angbar was only partially in ruins, and the
   Gatar Shey terminus of the Angbar road was farther from Sumaldi, which was
   important because Batik-al-Yazum was increasing the number of his
   servants, both alive and undead, and had been raiding the nearby nomad
   tribes. They also reported that a nomad from the Southern Desert reached
   them with tales of mass murders in Akhisar, in the fashion of the
   followers of Arakan.

   The characters were invited to meet with a group of merchants on 9 Sawtes
   848 to discuss opening trade with the South. At the meeting they discussed
   the characters' plans for the trade route and what needs to be done. All
   the merchants seemed very interested, and perhaps even willing to help
   defray the costs of opening the route. They invited the party back for
   another meeting on 25 Sawtes 848.

   On 15 Sawtes 848 as the characters were walking back from a restaurant, a
   young man burst out of one of the expensive homes along the street,
   yelling for help and saying someone has just abducted his father and
   brother. The characters recognized him as the son of Tyrrell, one of the
   merchants at the meeting, and approached him, but he fell to the ground
   and died, a crossbow bolt in his back. Entering the house, they found and
   killed one of the kidnappers and discovered a hidden passage leading to
   the sewers.

   Following the trail through the sewers, they discovered beggars in the
   sewers, and then a city beneath even the sewers, inhabited by a race of
   rat-like humanoids called skaven by the beggars. Some of these humanoids
   had captured humans and used them as sacrifices in their unholy worship,
   at which they were joined by some depraved humans. The party rescued the
   captives and escaped into the sewers, collapsing the tunnel to the
   Undercity behind them.

   One of the captives turned out to be Balour Shaw! Alas, he was incoherent
   most of the time, and it was clear he had been driven insane and could not
   remember any of his previous life. The party decided they owed him enough
   that they would try to get him healed.

   At the second meeting with the merchants all went well, with the merchants
   agreeing to contribute to the building of the road through the Atrusian
   hills, in return for reduced taxes on the goods that pass through the
   party's barony.

   On 2 Patluf 849 the count summoned the characters to discuss their plans
   for their barony; the count offered to retire some of his soldiers to the
   area to provide it with a core population. He also contracted with the
   party to take a ton of silver to the south and exchange it for gold, which
   the exchange rate would make very profitable.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed in December of 1988. It was probably the first
   adventure played using the GURPS rules.

5.28. Winter in Seagate

  5.28.1. Winter in Seagate: Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt

   Most of the characters were out walking late one very foggy evening,
   looking for a their favorite late-night tavern. They entered the Little
   Bazaar, which was oddly clear of the thick fog elsewhere omnipresent, when
   suddenly a familiar voice yelled out for them to stop. When they do, they
   heard their own voices coming out of the fog. The voices harranged them
   for their past deeds, and warned them that now they must be punished.
   Cormac was offered a chance to join them, and Basgoot was warned that he
   was selected out for eternal torment. Then a duplicate of each of the
   characters stepped out of the fog. After a difficult fight they killed all
   of the duplicates (at least, they thought they killed the duplicates...),
   but then the fog itself attacked them, and proved impervious to their
   weapons. (How do you fight fog?)

   Noticing that the fog thinned the further from the ground one went, they
   climbed up to the roof tops above the fog, which they found to be
   concentrated in a circle around the bazaar. The fog went berserk and began
   destroying buildings and killing anything in its path. They noticed a
   thick cord of silvery mist that led away from the fog, and followed it
   back to a warehouse.

   Inside the warehouse were several hundred Arkanian worshipers, kneeling
   and chanting, led by several priests. From their bodies rose a haze that
   solidified into fog above them and then twined into the silvery fog cord
   that the party had followed to the building. Outside, Basgoot drew the
   remains of Narung (which he had carefully, perhaps obsessively, carried
   with him since it was broken) and cut the silvery cord of fog. Narung
   sucked magical energy from the cord, and there was a huge explosion and an
   earthquake; ninety percent of the worshipers were killed and Basgoot was
   knocked unconscious. (Again.) The party observed that the stump of Narung
   was noticeably longer than before.

   The party returned to the Bazaar where they disposed of the bodies of
   their assailants in magical fire in a well, and then returned to their
   house where they found that the characters who had remained there had also
   been attacked. Later the party learned that several members of the Court
   were in the warehouse when it collapsed, and that the warehouse was owned
   by Suliman Trade.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed in late March, 1989.

  5.28.2. Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed

   Balour Shaw's amnesia and madness continued, and he had to be constantly
   looked after, a task made more difficult by the spells he randomly cast.
   Late one evening he was more unsettled than usual, but finally was calmed
   down by staring into the fire, a pastime he greatly enjoyed. (Ah, how the
   mighty are fallen.) Suddenly he yelled, threw something into the fire, and
   peered closely into the fire; whatever he saw frightened him and he jumped
   back screaming, “Come on, come on! We've got to see the Wizard!”

   Shaw led the party on a wild goose chase through the streets of Seagate
   and then through the sewers, half of the time giggling and laughing and
   half of the time screaming something about “idiots”. They followed him
   through the sewers till long after dark, picking up Kalo Bibkins on the
   way, until they finally caught up to him. Shaw pointed them to a secret
   door that disclosed a trapped tunnel leading into what was obviously an
   abandoned mage's workroom.

   Once in the room a spell was tripped, and it was magically sealed,
   trapping the party. In the center of the room was a shimmering dome, which
   turned out to contain a demon, and when the party investigated they found
   that the dome was about to collapse. Luckily the demon was also inside a
   pentagram that would hold it for a while longer, but when the characters
   figured out how to banish the demon they found that the tools they needed
   were inside the pentagram with the demon. They planned carefully, and when
   the dome collapsed Gim Torson rushed out and pitched the tools to those
   outside the pentagram. Unfortunately, the demon caught Gim by the leg, and
   proceeded to chew it off. An attack by the other characters distracted him
   long enough for Gim to break free, and they were able to perform the
   banishment.

   Afterwards, they eventually figured out how to get out of the room, and
   traversed a secret door upward to another chamber and then exited to the
   cellar of a house, which turned out to be a slum area. They fled the area,
   dragging the injured with them.

   Magic.  The players left the Bell, the Book, and the Candle in the
   workroom.

  Note

   This adventure was probably gamed in April, 1989.

5.29. Spring in Seagate

Healing, Wolves, Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

  5.29.1. Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

   After the chase through the sewers to the hidden magical workroom
   imprisoning the demon, Balour Shaw collapsed, and his condition continued
   to worsen. Winther stabilized Gim's leg, but could not heal it. When they
   looked for other healers it became apparent that none were left in the
   city: some had died, others had been killed, others had just plain
   disappeared. Eventually a dwarf (one of those the party had rescued from
   the Crypts of Stonesboro) came and told them of Mordraug, a powerful
   healer who lived at the head of the Wolf River, in the mountains below the
   Sweet Riding. Gim, Cormac, Jamie, Basgoot, Shay Uvall, and Balour Shaw
   went to Mordraug's Lair to get Gim and Balour Shaw healed, meeting Karl
   Bluetooth (an unsavory wilderness guide) and lots of wolves along the way.

   Once there they found that Mordraug was a necromancer as well as healer,
   and probably undead as well. His price for healing Gim and Balour Shaw and
   telling each of the characters something of great value was “a month of
   their lives.” Some halfhearted haggling ensued, but they finally agreed
   with the proviso that they would also receive a five point powerstone. The
   next morning they woke to find Gim and Balour Shaw were healed, though
   Balour Shaw was still asleep, and notes written in their own handwriting
   placed beside them. When they got back to civilization they found out that
   a month had passed. The evening before they reached Seagate Balour Shaw
   awoke, told them they had imperiled their souls by dealing with Mordraug,
   were stupid for bringing him back to Seagate, and that they had to protect
   Carzala now, he had more important things to do.

   They returned to Seagate to found out that that their house had been blown
   up and burned down in their absence and those they had left behind were
   nowhere to be found.

   Magic.  During this adventure Mordraug gave Gim, Cormac, Jamie, Basgoot,
   and Shay Uvall five point powerstones.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 26th of December, 1992.

  5.29.2. Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   After they find their exploded house, a squad of the count's guards
   marched up to take them to the count. Just a few minutes behind them came
   a group of the Baron of Seagate's city guards; there was a tense standoff
   for a few moments, but eventually the city guard backed down, and off the
   party went to see the count.

   The count was infuriated with them: there had been too many violent events
   lately around the party, including attempts to burn their ships (which did
   burn a nearby wharf), etc. Local opinion blamed the party for many of the
   other recent troubles, so the count gave the party an ultimatum: in four
   weeks they had to be out of Seagate and Carzala, and they could not return
   until the count was no longer angry with them and mood of the city had
   turned in their favor again.^[27] After being told this they were ushered
   from the Castle by the guards.

   After the guards left, they heard Derenedeth's voice coming from a nearby
   sewer entrance. He directed them to stable their horses at a livery stable
   where he would meet them. From there he leds them through the sewers,
   where they were followed by a small shadow that turned out, eventually, to
   be Kalo Bibkins. Along the way they were trapped between beggars driving
   giant rats for dinner and Skaven coming to fight for their brethren. They
   turned themselves invisible, hid in a side passage, collapsed part of the
   tunnel on the skaven and beggars, and in the ensuing confusion they
   escaped.

   Eventually they got to the the mage's workroom under the city where the
   party had fought the imprisoned demon. There the returning characters
   found the rest of the characters, who were very confused when asked what
   was going on, for the returning characters had warned the other characters
   to leave the house before the explosion,^[28] and they have been hiding in
   the sewers since then. The party decided to buy the house above the
   workroom so they would have a bolt-hole in times of trouble. They stayed
   at a good inn for the rest of the month they were in Seagate.

   Basgoot continued acting strange and moody, often vanishing and
   reappearing at strange times. Cormac, Shay, and Basgoot interviewed
   mercenaries for guards for the road, with occasional advice from Gerrod.
   Gim, Winther, and Jamie interviewed laborers and support personnel for the
   road building. The dwarves working on Ilene's tower agreed to work for the
   party on part of the road. Tesla continued overseeing the trading company.
   Winther retired to the lab and produced stinks and smokes. Tesla embarked
   on a series of magical and surgical repairs which soon moved beyond the
   realm of repairs.

   Basgoot fled Seagate on the morning of 23 Ubard 849 in the company of Evan
   and an unknown dwarf. This was the morning the party was scheduled to
   discuss plans with the count. The party only knew that Basgoot and Evan
   had disappeared until after the meeting when Derenedeth reported with the
   news. Jamie visited his contacts in the Thieves Guild^[29] and returned
   with the news that the dwarf was Bolg, a bad character and had abducted
   one footpad who attacked him on his way out, and killed another.

   Gim, Cormac, Jamie, Shay Uvall, and Winther chased Basgoot, Evan, and Bolg
   to Mordraug's Lair, where Basgoot, Bolg, and Mordraug reforged Narung with
   the help of an unknown wizard/swordsmith. As part of the process, Narung's
   demon was released from the sword and the party had to keep it away from
   the sorcerers while they cast the spell to reimprisoned it. To do this the
   characters flew around a lot until Basgoot with everyone's help impaled
   the Demon in the eye with Narung as sorcerers finished casting the spell.

   When Basgoot impaled the Demon and the sorcerers finished the spell the
   Demon screamed so loud it knocked everyone down and then was sucked into
   Narung. Basgoot hesitated a moment then chopped Mordraug's head off.
   Bolggave off a fiendish, joyous laugh and immediately attacked Basgoot,
   struggling with him for Narung and nearly killed the Demon-torn warrior.
   Shay Entombed Bolg, and Jamie, thinking quickly, got five fingers cut off
   (three on one hand, two on the other) but prevented Narung from being
   Entombed with Bolg. Luckily, Winther Restored them, although Jamie would
   not be able to use them for a month. Basgoot became more nearly normal in
   appearance, though he still had Narung. The party fled Mordraug's Lair as
   it collapsed around them. Evan left the party soon thereafter (in
   disgust?) and wandered south through the mountains. The party made it back
   to Seagate and had to leave the very next day, 10 Silemore 849, on the
   first day of their temporary exile.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 31st of December, 1992, or on the 2nd of
   January, 1993.

5.30. Roadtrip!

  5.30.1. Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People,
  and Mages

   On the morning the party was to leave Seagate, Derenedeth turned up
   terribly injured (almost dead) at the inn where the party was staying. The
   rest of the party healed him and when he recovered he told them he'd been
   taking care of business when he'd gotten careless and had been captured by
   the Beggar King's minions. The party went back to sleep. When they got up
   again to leave, they heard the cook telling the innkeeper how ten dead
   beggars had been found floating out of the sewers so far that morning. The
   party decided to skip breakfast and leave right away.

   They reached the South Lending in the Brastor Holding on 25 Silemore 849,
   where they intended to wait for the mercenaries and engineers to arrive
   (except for Remy Gill, who was already with them). As soon as they rode
   into town, however, many of the town's merchants accosted Jamie Molson and
   demanded the money he owed them. After much arguing Jamie and the party
   managed to convince the merchants (helped by Jamie's lack of scaring and
   his pleasant facial expression) that the Jamie Molson who owed them money
   was an imposter posing as the real Jamie Molson.^[30] After yet more
   argument the local constable was also convinced, though still suspicious.
   Unfortunately for Jamie, the innkeeper wasn't convinced until after he
   beat Jamie about with a piece of firewood.

   The first night they were in the South Lending they set a watch and
   Magelocked their windows, fearing that Jamie's double was after him again.
   Alas, they were all cast into an enchanted sleep and Jamie was Teleported
   away from them. The Teleport woke them up, however, and they immediately
   began looking for Jamie using Seeker. They found that he was about a half
   a mile away, on the other side of town, and set out for there immediately.

   Jamie,^[31] on the other hand, found himself in a dead-end alley facing
   two figures — one his double and the other a demonic creature spitting
   fire. He attempted to Teleport back to the inn room, but a Teleport Shield
   prevented it. He then cleverly Teleporteded behind the two to attack them
   from behind, but was never-the-less overpowered and captured.

   When the rest of the party arrived they found a number of burned spots and
   some blood on the ground. Upon again Seeking Jamie they got an image of
   him lashed over the back of a demonic creature and behind him seated his
   double, who was laughing manaicly and periodically digging at Jamie with
   his dagger as they traveled through a hellish landscape. The landscape
   seemed familiar to Basgoot from his dreams...

   The party gave up hope for Jamie and moped around the South Lending until
   the mercenaries and engineers arrived to survey the road. When the survey
   mission reached Blackstone Chapel they found that several important
   factions in the order opposed the building of the road, worried about
   losing the isolation necessary to a religious order and the possibility of
   conflict with the savage hill tribes. Indeed, some of the Chapel elders
   went so far as to threaten legal proceedings to block the road, with some
   apparent legal justification. The elders agreed to let the road be built
   after the party surveyed an alternate route for the road that did not pass
   through the middle of the Chapel complex and the party was convinced to
   build a wayhouse (at a probable cost of 100,000 to 200,000 farthings) for
   the order at the intersection of the new road and the old.

   Some miles past the Chapel they found the ruins of what could have been an
   inn or manor house set back a bit from the road. This could be repaired,
   though only partial walls remain now. They did not find anything unusual
   about the ruins. Some days past the ruins the party noticed they were
   being watched by a group of tribesmen. The characters approached the
   tribesmen, who all had a design worked into their clothes with blue-dyed
   leather. The tribesmen communicated with the party with sign, asking what
   they were doing there. The party managed to convey something of their
   purpose, and though the tribesmen were displeased, they seemed resigned.
   They also seemed to indicate that hostile tribes lay futher along the
   party's path.

   Several days later the party was attacked by a couple of hundred
   tribesmen, who ambushed them in a narrow valley walled with trees and
   thick underbush. Even though the party was ambushed, Orm and his troops
   and the characters easily managed to defeat the tribesmen, having only 3
   dead and 3 severly injured, while many tribesmen died. All of the
   tribesmen were found to have an irregular eight-pointed figure worked into
   their clothing with red-dyed leather.

   Further along in the bending south of the road's path, the party followed
   a disturbance into the brush one night because they saw Tesla (who had
   stayed behind in Seagate to manage the business) running towards them, but
   before they could reach her she had been pulled into the bushes. When they
   reached the area she was gone.

   Tracks of unusually small humanoids lead away and the party followed them
   to the foot of a tall crag, where the trail ended. Gim Walked on Air to
   the top of the crag, but saw only the ruins of a castle. Remy and Shay
   investigated inside the rock of the crag, but found nothing. After much
   searching about, Derenedeth cast Flight on four of the party and they
   carried the other party members to the top of the crag, where they saw the
   castle ruins, but this time there was an intact tower! Gim Bird Controled
   the giant owls nesting on the top of the tower away, and the party landed
   and entered the tower.

   The tower was filled with many strange things, including invisible
   servants, golem guardians, macabre decorations, and all the modern
   conveniences. In a room floored by a huge five-pointed star in a circle
   the party was attacked by five golems after a fireball dropped out of the
   ceiling and exploded in the middle of the room. In the throne room they
   were attacked by 20 demons while another demon carried Tesla down the
   stairs to the basement. The surviving demons Blinked out down the stairs
   when the party had slaughtered most of them, and the corpses revealed that
   they had actually been short humanoids. The party recognized them as the
   “Little People” of BAMF's report.

   When they tried to follow they ended up on an endless stair trap that
   finally led them to the roof where they now found an observatory and an
   orrery, which when pushed caused the stars to whirl violently, making all
   of the party terribly ill. Going back down to the basement they found it
   completely filled with what they thought was water but what was actually a
   Sucking Reek that turned Gim into a Body of Air, sucked him in and nearly
   dissolved him. After returning to the throne room for much discussion,
   they tried the basement again and this time it was dry-floored and
   contained a steeply inclined tunnel that lead down through the crag.

   At the bottom of the crag they found an arid plane of dust-filled winds
   and sand and gravel and baked clay, littered with various body parts. Over
   them a huge blood-red sun visibly rose in the west, and all around were
   crags and huge piles of boulders. They heard distant screams and Gim
   remembered legends of such an infernal place. They followed some tracks to
   a crack in the bottom of another crag, which lead into a series of
   passageways resembling nothing so much as the digestive system of some
   huge subterranean beast. Disoriented by the foul air and the nature of the
   passageways they stumbled through a central chamber with six exits and out
   another tunnel.

   This tunnel eventually turned to stone and led to a set of double doors.
   When they opened the doors they were looking upon a huge semi-spherical
   room with a number of statues, a five-pointed star in a circle containing
   a dismembered body, a blood-covered figure rising from the floor, and
   Jamie tied to one of the statues. They recognized the figure as the mage
   who threatened them in Suliman Trade's warehouse during the Crypts of
   Stonesboro adventure, and he recognized them! The party immediately began
   a desperate attack to cover Basgoot's attempt to rescue Jamie. After
   Hasteing himself, Basgoot ran out and slashed Jamie free from the statue
   with Narung, slicing him slightly in the process, then ran back to the
   double doors. While this was going on the others were trying to cast
   spells (which all fizzled out), keep open the slowly closing double doors,
   and endure the attacks of fire and ice triggered by the mage. They managed
   to keep the doors open until Basgoot had dragged Jamie through (Cormac
   losing the last joint of the little finger on his right hand as the doors
   closed) and then fled back up the passage under a hail of ice-daggers and
   fireballs.

   Fleeing back through the slimy tunnels, they again stumbled through the
   central chamber and took another tunnel. This one eventually turned to
   packed earth, which started collapsing about them as they squirmed
   through. Several of the party got stuck in the collapsing tunnel, but the
   others managed to pull them out, into the bottom of a pit, above which was
   a beautiful blue sky.^[32]

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 26th of November 1994.

  5.30.2. Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and Orcs Again

   The session began with the characters at the bottom of a pit, staring at a
   wonderful blue sky above them. Upon investigating, they found that the pit
   was surrounded by tall poles surmounted by skulls and short, painted wands
   tasselled with feather or furs. Off in the distance is what appears to be
   a tribal encampment of Horse nomads. The tunnel they came through is only
   partially collapsed, so the characters decided to dig back through, after
   spending some time resting and healing themselves.

   They began to dig, but while they are digging they hear something taunting
   them and cursing them; when they look up, on the edge of pit is a horrible
   creature: a spider with a 3-yard leg-span and a human torso attached to
   the front of its cephalothorax! Needless to say, there's a lot of cursing
   going on as part of the party stands the monster off while the rest finish
   the digging. They manage to flee back through the tunnel without anyone
   being killed, though some were bit.

   The characters travelled back through the tunnels (or bowels as the case
   may be), through the central chamber, and out through another tunnel. This
   one eventually turned into a stone tunnel that narrowed down to an 3 foot
   tall, 18 inch wide crack, which opened into a rough-hewn corridor that
   lead off to the right and left. Deep, gravelly voices could be heard
   coming from both directions, but no-one could hear enough to determine
   what they were. Foolhardy and brave, the characters decided to sneak down
   the corridor to the right, which lead them to a chamber full of Orcs.
   Against the back wall of the chamber was a throne of huge bones and tusks,
   upon which sat a huge orc holding a large sceptre or mace. All of the Orcs
   where busily employed devouring their meal; it's probably best not to
   inquire what was on the menu. The sounds of bones cracking under the
   pressure of orcish molars covered whatever sounds the characters may have
   made during their approach, and they decided that discretion was the
   better part of valour and retreated back down the crack and into the
   slimy, odoriferous tunnels.

   Again the characters travelled back through the passageways, again through
   the central chamber, and again out through yet another exit. This time
   they came out into the night in a niche on the side of a hill, a flat
   place with steep sides and a short cliff on the back, where the tunnel
   entrance was. The niche overlooked a desolate heath, and in the distance
   the characters saw a faint glow, and some of them occasionally heard
   chanting. They were attacked by two of the “Little People”, but soon
   defeated them. Looking around a bit they found some stained leather
   bindings that looked like foot-wrappings and still had traces of the slime
   from the tunnels.

   Since the pressence of the Little People seemed to indicate a likelyhood
   of finding Tesla, and no other interesting features presented themselves,
   the characters set off north towards the glow and the chanting. Out on the
   heath the characters came to a barrow mound, and beyond the barrow mound
   was a ring of standing stones, and in the center of that was a
   three-legged dolmen. There were three fires in front of the dolmen, around
   which danced many of the Little People, and beside one of them was a
   wizened oldster bedecked with feathers and furs and paint, sharpening a
   cleaver. Atop the dolmen were four warriors, and what looked suspicously
   like a bound human.

   Attacking the Little People. Rescuing Tesla, with lots of invisibility and
   flying.^[33] Because of his great strength, Basgoot was probably the one
   who grabbed Tesla, although there was probably someone who also helped
   with Tesla. Shay Uvall probably attacked the shaman and took his cleaver,
   and there may have been others attacking the group of Little People. In
   general, lots of hacking and slashing went on.

   Not surprisingly, the Little People were not pleased by this assault on
   their religious rites, and pursued the characters with fury, cries of
   rage, and sharp objects. Luckily, the characters were faster. Not to
   mention largely invisible. Still, it was a close race back to the tunnel
   entrance.^[34]

   The characters fled back through the Belly of the Beast, for such it now
   seemed certain it was, for as they scuttled through the depth of the slime
   increased, jets of slime shot out of orifices in the walls, the tunnels
   shook and quaked and quivered, seemingly in agony, and a terrible deep
   beat reverberated throughout the the tunnels. Things Were Obviously Not
   Well. Luckily, this time as they stumbled through the central chamber they
   chose the exit that lead out to the infernal desert, above which rose the
   castle on its crag.

   Finally they reached the crag and tiredly climbed up the tunnel into the
   castle dungeon. After some difficulty getting out of the castle due to
   uncertainty of the stairs leading one to where one expected to go (“Didn't
   we just do this?”) they managed to escape and returned to the the camp
   with their mercenary soldiers, and found out that they had only been gone
   only one day. They continued with the survey of the road. When they got to
   the cliff, they had to leave their horses behind, but they continued with
   their survey, heading down out of the mountains towards the Vale of Morin.

   Jamie, troubled by the pains of his wounds and the even greater pains of
   worries about what his double was up too, was wandering about in the night
   and stumbled upon an badly wounded orc standing over the newly killed body
   of another orc. The remaining orc attacked Jamie, but because of his
   wounds was easily dispatched. The Orcs had two Evil-looking magic items: a
   Mace in the form of a metal Skull and an Axe fancifully engraved with the
   visage of a hideous demon.^[35]

   The next day the outriders reported a large part of Orcs very near coming
   quickly toward the party. Orm quickly commanded the party up onto flat
   spot above a extremely rugged and steep hillside to await the Orcs. About
   a hundred orcs approached, and send out a herald to parley. He demanded
   the return of the of their two sacred relics. During the parley, another
   group of about a hundred orcs appeared, to the anger of the first group,
   and they also sent a herald to demand the return of their sacred relics.
   After some stalling by the party, the two groups of orcs both attacked the
   party, co-operating against a common enemy, though obviously enemies
   themselves. The party was outnumbered by more than two-to-one, and these
   Orcs were clearly better armed and armored than the tribesmen had been.
   Cleverly, the characters thought to abduct^[36] and neutralize the Orc
   mages and leaders, which helped, and their defensive location helped, but
   even so it was difficult battle. The party was successful, though, with
   the orcs fleeing the battle at the end, and all the characters surviving.

   So we left our heros on the field of battle, tending their wounded and
   wondering what it was all about.

  Note

   This adventure was gamed on the 23rd of December 1994.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   ^[11] Didn't Ray Smith run an adventure in the Brastor Holding with the
   party? Maybe even two? I think that's why I originally created Derenedeth.
   If anybody can remember, I'd appreciate any details that they can supply.
   Didn't this involve the Book of Ka-gor, or something like that?

   ^[12] Is this an emblem, sigil, or icon? Or merely a name inscribed on a
   box? (I think this was a symbol burnt into a crate, and the party had to
   research it.)

   ^[13] I think that Cormac died here; who else?

   ^[14] This is the point at which this happened, isn't it?

   ^[15] Was Derenedeth absent on his own mysterious business and remained at
   large and in hiding, or was he captured as well and not offered the choice
   of exile, later to be rescued? I think the later. Ray, do you remember?

   ^[16] Notice that this conflicts with what the Auhaami found in Angbar.
   See What the Auhaami say about Angbar.

   ^[17] Didn't they try to do this with the drugs from the Fire Giant's
   tower?

   ^[18] A player character, perhaps one whose player was not there that
   evening?

   ^[19] One of a semi-mythical, somewhat magical race of the South.

   ^[20] Did they attempt to poison the sandwhip with salts from the Salt
   Sea? Or was that just the imaginings of the Gamesmaster's fevered mind?
   (Probably the latter.)

   ^[21] When did they buy a house?

   ^[22] Weren't the characters invited to attend his death?

   ^[23] The party all choruses, “Gotta get the Band-Aid Back!” See, Winther,
   you are valued!

   ^[24] A horn, a jewel of seeing magic?

   ^[25] Pronunciation by the Inspector Clouseau, of course.

   ^[26] Note that this contradicts what the Ghosts of the Vale of Morin told
   the party. See Ghosts in Korsepolis.

   ^[27] Although it wasn't mentioned in the original notes, they actually
   got permission to leave Tesla behind to look after their business and
   house(s) in Seagate.

   ^[28] There was not time to get anything but what each character had on
   them out of the house.

   ^[29] I think on the way Jamie was attacked by his double, and that the
   being who reported back to the party claimed to be Jamie and claimed that
   both Jamie and the double survived.

   ^[30] They actually explained about the doubles they fought in Seagate
   during the explanations.

   ^[31] Played by Howard Hill, in Ray Smith's absence.

   ^[32] At this point all of the characters have 3 HT left, except for
   Jamie, who has 1 HT left, and is still unconscious.

   ^[33] Who did what here? I know that one invisible character flew onto the
   dolmen, attacked the guards, and snatched up Tesla, then flew back towards
   the entrance to this plane. I think another invisible character attacked
   the shaman, and took his cleaver. I think there were other invisble
   characters wandering around.

   ^[34] Didn't somebody collapse the tunnel entrance?

   ^[35] Did Jamie tell the other characters before the Orcs caught up to the
   party? I think he did.

   ^[36] Were they able to abduct them? If so, how many? Or did they just
   kill them? Howard thinks they were just killed.

                        Chapter 6. Post-Campaign Events

   Tesla Ramana returned to Seagate to run their business, organize work
   rebuilding their house, and start work on the road to the Vale of Morin.

   The other PCs continued south with their troups guarding their caravan of
   silver.

                          Chapter 7. Interesting Items

   This chapter describes some of the interesting items that the party has
   found over the campaign.^[37]

   Narung.  Found in the the Crypts of Stonesboro, Narung is a mysterious
   sword responsible for much havoc in the party, especially to its bearer,
   Basgoot.

   Clay Balls.  Glazed, hollow clay spheres, some of these contain enigmatic
   black shadows that exist without any visible objects to cast them, and
   move on their own.

   Horn.  A curious horn, of unknown properties.

   Power Stones.  The party has obtained several power stones, from various
   sources.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   ^[37] Eventually, it will be a complete list of the more important
   treasure, especially magical treasure, that they have found and sometimes
   lost.

   However, when the party's house exploded, most of these treasures were
   lost.

                         Chapter 8. Interesting Places

   This chapter details some of the interesting places that the characters
   found during their adventures.

   Ogres' Cave.  In their very first adventure the characters found this
   out-of-the way cave in the mountains to the east of Carzala. A long,
   winding, narrow (by ogre standards) passage leads down to a large room.

   Turon's Cave.  While rescuing a rich merchant's mad son from the
   wilderness, the party found this cave in the bank of the Sweetwater river.
   When the river level is high, the entrance to this cave is under water,
   but the main room is high enough so it is rarely submerged.

   Blackstone Chapel.  An order of healing monks and nuns lives here, to the
   south of the Brastor Holding. They are basically pacifistic, and very fond
   of debate. Their deity does the really difficult healing, such as
   resurrection.

   Fire Giant's Watchtower.  At the end of the mountain road out of
   Korsepolis on the very edge of the Mountain wall overlooking the cliff and
   the desert is a tall, strong tower that was once inhabited by an evil Fire
   Giant.

   Smugglers' Caves.  While investigating the doings of Amur Gibbetsmaster
   the party discovered this very interesting set of caves, which led into a
   maze of tunnels inhabited by Giant Spiders and full of Arkanian symbols.
   In front of the caves is a cove convenient for smugglers.

                      Chapter 9. Reflections on a Campaign

   Table of Contents

   9.1. The Frontiers of Alusia

   9.2. DragonQuest

   9.3. GURPS

   This campaign never really ended, but the geographical dispersal of the
   players eventually caused it to sink into quiescence. Still, with 30
   adventures over several more sessions than that, it lasted pretty well. It
   looks like there were 5 adventures in 1985, 15 adventures in 1986, 2
   adventures in 1987, 5 adventures in 1988, 2 adventures in 1989, 2
   adventures in 1992, and 2 adventures in 1994. Several of the players
   graduated from college in 1986, if I remember correctly, and left the area
   for jobs. In the later years we played at Thanksgiving and Christmas, when
   the players returned to the area on holidays. After that things began to
   get too difficult to schedule.

   There were plenty of things left for the players to do: finishing the
   road, developing their barony, fighting humanoids along the Mountain Wall,
   trade caravans to the south, fighting The Mage and The Necromancer, and so
   forth.

   I was surprised, looking back, at how many player characters, and how many
   important non-player characters, died during this campaign, or were
   severely wounded.

   At some point I'd like to revisit this campaign, but frankly at this point
   in my life I'm not sure I'd be interested in doing it in either
   DragonQuest or GURPS (my tastes lately run to simpler rules systems), and
   I'm not sure converting things to yet another system would be worth it.
   (At the time, I was maintaining the GURPS character sheets using the
   original MakeChar; I've no idea what the modern equivalents are like.)

   Of course, looking back at the box of index cards I used to keep NPC and
   monster stats I see that my typical GURPS NPC or monster easily fit on the
   front of one index card, and are in general remarkably simple. Really,
   GURPS's complexity comes during character creation, and then only for
   characters that you are detailing to the level of a PC, something you'd
   only do for a major villian; for everybody else you just pick the numbers
   you want.

   In 2007 I revisited to this setting briefly with a Savage Worlds adventure
   for my daughter, niece, nephews, and one of the original players. It was
   fun to see the original players eyes get big when he realized where this
   new adventure was taking place. And the adventure itself was fun, so I
   reckoned it was successful on both levels.

9.1. The Frontiers of Alusia

   The Frontiers of Alusia really was minimal, consisting of only the 22"×24"
   map, a description of the general area on the inside of the coversheet (a
   thin 11"×17" sheet of thin cardboard, folded over to be an 8½"×11"
   folder), the map key on the back of the coversheet, and a 4 page “Travel
   Guide for the Frontiers of Alusia Adventure Map” (an 11"×17" sheet of
   paper, folded over to be two 8½"×11" sheets, making 4 pages) with a short
   paragraph for each of the most important map features.^[38] The area was a
   frontier, relatively recently settled (or resettled, as it ended up in my
   campaign's backhistory), surrounded by wilderness and strange creatures,
   with little bits of the past, ruins and such, appearing here and there. I
   think the sparseness of the setting was actually helpful: you could easily
   know everything about the setting and could mold it however you wanted.

   In any case, like the other campaigns featuring The Frontiers of Alusia
   I've since found on the net, I added many features of my own to the area,
   including a new area to the south, off the map, where the player
   characters ended up spending a significant portion of their time. I also
   went back and forth on the size of the area a number of times, rescaling
   it to have a larger area and adjusting the population upwards.

9.2. DragonQuest

   I have a description of the DragonQuest rules elsewhere. I'm glad I
   started this out in DragonQuest (DQ); I liked the DQ rules much more than
   AD&D, as they allowed much more flexible and detailed characters and more
   interesting tactics, as well as allowing every character to have some
   magic. It gave a much different feel to the campaign. I had previously
   used DQ to play a moderate length campaign using the wonderful DQ
   adventure The Enchanted Wood, written by Paul Jaquays and published by
   SPI, and had been very pleased with how DQ played, and it was a good fit
   for the campaign.

   Eventually, however, I became dissatisfied with DQ, probably due to the
   number of independent forumulas that I had to calculate when updating
   major NPCs and the players had to calculate when updating PCs.

9.3. GURPS

   Eventually, however, I began to want something that was even more flexible
   than DQ, which had few skills outside those explictly part of the
   professional skills (Alchemist, Mechanican, Troubadour, etc.) and the
   combat skills. I also became dissatisfied with the many independent
   formulas that had to be calculated when updating characters. These
   formulas were scattered through the rulebook so it was painful to find
   them and then painful to actually do the calculation.^[39]

   In some ways then it is ironic that the next system used was GURPS 3^rd
   edition, from Steve Jackson Games. (See Section 5.27, “Monsters and
   Merchants Under Seagate”.) It has lots of skills, which also need to be
   calculated when characters gain experience. However, at least in GURPS all
   skills (which includes magic) have costs that are figured off one table,
   and it is the actual skill number that goes up, rather than the skill rank
   and then some other number figured by a (often) unique formula.

   In any case, I converted^[40] all the characters from DQ to 3^rd edition
   GURPS (they ended up around 350 points, and were probably a little more
   powerful and considerably more well-rounded) and important NPCs over (the
   chief villain of the campaign ended up at well over 1000 points), and the
   players were able to adjust pretty quickly. (They were already used to a
   detailed tactical hex-grid combat system from DQ, so adapting to GURPS
   wasn't that much of a stretch.) All in all, it worked out very well.

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   ^[38] I suspect that SPI had hoped to offer additional products to go with
   this, but such was not to be. Judges Guild did produce three supplements
   set in The Frontiers of Alusia: Magebird Quest, Heroes and Villians, and
   Starsilver Trek, but I didn't know of them at the time and never saw them
   until I bought them from an internet RPG dealer in December 2007. I wish
   I'd had them, since they would have been useful in fleshing out the
   setting.

   ^[39] Nowadays I'd probably just make a spreadsheet to use for the
   character sheets.

   ^[40] I used Bill Seurer's GURPS MAKECHAR character generation program,
   which worked very nicely.

                             Report from BAMF, Inc.

  T. Kurt Bond

   1988-12-27

   Table of Contents

   A.1. Background

   A.2. Report from BAMF, Inc.

   A.3. Message from the Auhaami

A.1. Background

   About one week ago the BAMF, Inc. returned to Seagate with a report and a
   rough map, which they duly presented to the characters. They also were
   accompanied by three Auhaami carrying a message from the chief at Tuath's
   Rest. The report and message follow herewith.

A.2. Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Until Blackstone Chapel (twenty miles into the South Downs), the road is
   passable without much trouble, and suitable for carts and wagons,
   excepting a few trouble spots. However, within five miles the road after
   the chapel has disappeared completely except for almost unnoticable
   traces. The rangers were able to follow those traces without too many
   problems. Eighty miles beyond Blackstone Chapel the traces lead into a
   medium-sized valley, about 1 mile long and a quarter to half a mile wide.
   The far end of the valley forks, dividing east and south. Streams run down
   each of the forks into the center of the valley where there is a large
   pond. A large stream empties this pool and runs out of the valley through
   the end the party entered the valley (the northwest end). Beside the pool
   is a ruin, little more than foundation outlines and a pile of stones.

   The party took the east fork and traveled about fifteen miles until they
   came to a tree surrounded by wolves. In the tree was perched a three foot
   tall near-human (of an unknown race), which the party rescued. It turned
   out he was the chief of a tribe, and in gratitude he invited them back to
   his home cave for a feast. The party agreed, and accompanied them to the
   cave (were there were two hundred or so little people), where they were
   served fine food and and absolutely the best ale they had ever tasted.
   However, after most of the party had nodded off they were attacked by the
   Little People. The party bravely fought off the attack and managed to
   escape the cave complex, capturing the chief along the way. The chief was
   killed during the escape, but one of the party, Bere (pronounced bear),
   carried the body along and after reaching a safe place he cut out the
   heart of the chief and ate it. It made him sick for several days.

   They travelled about fifteen more miles and came to a deep, swift, and
   fairly wide mountain streem that they found uncrossable. In the middle of
   the stream is a large rock which looks as if it may have at one time
   supported a bridge. This stream is also inhabited by a large monster,
   which the party glimpsed only briefly. Though they did explore upstream
   several miles, they did not find any better places to cross, so they
   returned to the fork in the valley and took the south branch.

   Following the south branch, they were surrounded by a tribe of humans with
   stone and bronze weapons. The party managed to convince the tribesmen that
   the party was not hostile, and became somewhat friendly with them. These
   tribesmen mentioned that there were several tribes in the mountains, and
   that all the others were hostile. They were greatly curious about the iron
   weapons of the party members, for iron weapons were only legends to them.

   About twenty miles from the fork the party came to cliff-face. Only a
   rough footpath (not sufficient for pack animals, but adequate for careful
   climbers) is left on the cliff-face itself. While they were climbing the
   footpath, they came abreast of a cave mouth, in which appeared a
   mad-looking old man yelling “Who are you?” This hermit promptly fell out
   of the cave mouth, yelling “Now what is that spell…” A little while later
   he came climbing bck up to them, covered in white feathers. He tagged
   along with the party after that. He did not know the mountains, answering
   the party's questions in that direction with “Haven't the foggiest! I've
   never been here before in my life!” He did help them a couple of times by
   lighting the evening fire with a Fireball spell, though. After the
   clif-face they descended through the mountains for twenty miles until they
   reached the Vale of Morin.

   When the party crossed the Vale of Morin they were accosted by Ghosts
   twice; both times they were asked if they were working to establish a
   trade route, the ghosts saying “we were promised this so our souls could
   rest.” The party replied that they were surveying for the trade route.

   When the party reached Korsepolis they found that, although the humanoids
   were not having one of their frequent wars in the ruins, there were many
   of them in the surrounding mountains, and in the city itself. The ruins of
   Korsepolis are nestled in the mouth of a valley, through which runs the
   road into the Mountain Wall. The ruins completely fill the mouth of the
   valley, and a a half a mile wide or more. In the center of the city is an
   area that has been cleared of ruins and leveled by the humanoids. They
   piled the stones around the cleared area, making a circular mound around
   it, and many are living in it (about 150 to 200). Other than the watch
   around the central area, the humanoids do not seem to keep careful watch
   on the city, patrolling only once every three or four days or so. In the
   city there are ruins of what must have once been a small fort which could
   be rebuilt relatively easily. It seems to be newer than the rest of the
   ruins, and was built using rubble frmo the city. There are also two towers
   of the same sort in different areas of the city that could be rebuilt. The
   humanoids seem to avoid these areas for some reason, not coming close to
   them on their patrols through the city. After observing the city for a
   while BAMF sneaked through undetected and continued to the Watchtower.

   When BAMF reached the Watchtower they found twenty-five Auhaami camped
   around there. The Watchtower itself seemed in good shape, and had not been
   entered. The Auhaami asked who the party was and what it was doing, and
   when told it was working for the explorers who came through several months
   ago three Auhaami decided to accompany them back to Seagate with a
   message.

   On the way back through Korsepolis the party ran into a small group of
   orcs, which they managed to destroy. They left the city hurriedly before
   any other orcs found them.

   On the return leg of the journey the party was attacked by Horse Nomads
   and several people were severely injured. While the old hermit held off
   the nomads with an odd assortment of spells the party retreated into the
   Thronewood, where they were found by an old woman. The old woman and the
   old man healed the injured party members, while arguing constantly over
   everything while they were together.

   When the party reached the Brastor Holding the old man left them. The rest
   of the trip was relatively uneventful, except for several short battles
   with bandits along the roads in the Atrusian Hills.

   The total time for the journey was 83 days, but the rangers estimate that
   travel time through the South Downs and the East Bounders would be fifteen
   to sixteen days.

A.3. Message from the Auhaami

   The road out of Angbar is better than the Korsepolis road and it is
   farther from the ruined city in the desert, Sumaldi, which is important
   because Batik-al-Yazum is incresing the number of his servants, both alive
   and undead, and they have raided the nearer tribes several times. There is
   also small castle in Angbar that is only partially in ruins. There are
   very few humanoids south of Resimaldi. Each road through the mountains has
   a watchtower at the desert end.

                                     Index

  A

   abduction

                Amur Gibbetsmaster, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

                Hajj, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

                party members, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's
                Breaking, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests,
                Golems, Little People, and Mages

                Tyrell, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   Abu Darruh, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   AD&D, DragonQuest

   Alan Bond, The Abandoned Cathedral

   Albad, Non-Player Characters, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj, Back
   in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   Alusia

                The Frontiers of, Setting, The Frontiers of Alusia

   Amlach the Golden, The Abandoned Cathedral

   Amur Gibbetsmaster, Non-Player Characters, The Arrest of the Party,
   Smugglers' Cove and Caves, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster, Smugglers'
   Cove, Revisited, Interesting Places

                confession, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                death, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                smuggling, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   Angbar, To the Mountain Wall, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate,
   Message from the Auhaami

                castle, Message from the Auhaami

   Arakan, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

   Arakanisi, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

                Salt Sea

                             caves, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's
                             Breaking

   Arkan's Throne, Some Events at Finn's Waste

   Arkanians, The Smugglers' Ships

   Arn's Ferry, The Merchant's Insane Son, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Return
   to Carzala & Events in Seagate, The Smugglers' Ships

   arrest

                party, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved, The Arrest of the
                Party

   assassination of Hajj, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   assassination of party, The Merchant's Insane Son, The Stronghold of
   Sassym, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   Atrusian Hills, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Auhaami, Non-Player Characters, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate,
   Background, Report from BAMF, Inc., Message from the Auhaami

                following BAMF north, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

                following party north, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   awakening of Narung, The Stronghold of Sassym

  B

   Balour Shaw, Non-Player Characters, The Merchant's Insane Son, To the
   Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Return to Carzala & Events in
   Seagate, Some Events at Finn's Waste, Monsters and Merchants Under
   Seagate, Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed, Spring
   in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

                tower destroyed, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

   BAMF, BAMF, Inc., Some Events at Finn's Waste, Monsters and Merchants
   Under Seagate, Background

                hermit, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   bandits, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

   Barlow Smythe, Player Characters

                death, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   Baron of Seagate, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate, The Capture of
   Amur Gibbetsmaster

   barony

                PCs, Player Characters, Reflections on a Campaign

                             awarded, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                             taxes, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   Basgoot, Player Characters, The Stronghold of Sassym, The Nomads & the
   Ruined City of Sumaldi, The Attack on Tuath's Rest, Visit to
   Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Akhisar, the Chimera, and
   Tekhadun's Death, The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban, Winter in
   Seagate: Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing,
   Wolves, and Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and
   Demons

                drinking problem, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

                geas

                             to clear the Crypts of Stonesboro, To Clear the
                             Crypts of Stonesboro

                hubris, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

                lightning, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

                transformations, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, The
                Attack on Tuath's Rest, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's
                Breaking, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and
                Demons

   Batik-al-Yazum, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, Monsters and
   Merchants Under Seagate, Message from the Auhaami

   Battle with the orcs, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and
   Orcs Again

   Beggar King, Non-Player Characters

   beggars, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate, Spring in Seagate: Part 2:
   Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                floating in the sewers, dead, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars,
                Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

   Bere, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   biting key, The Giant's Watchtower

   Blackstone Chapel, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved, Roadtrip! Part 1:
   Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages, Report from
   BAMF, Inc.

   Bolg, Player Characters, Non-Player Characters, Spring in Seagate: Part 2:
   Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   Boombs!, The Abandoned Cathedral

   Boswt, Player Characters, The Stronghold of Sassym

                death, The Stronghold of Sassym

   bounty hunter, The Arrest of the Party

   Brandon Marec, Non-Player Characters

   Brastor Holding, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved, Monsters and
   Merchants Under Seagate, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests,
   Golems, Little People, and Mages, Interesting Places

   bridge

                vanished, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Broken Lands, Non-Player Characters

   Burial Crypts of Stonesboro, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   Bytor, Player Characters

                death, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

                undead, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

  C

   Camlost, Non-Player Characters

   Captain of Akhisar City Guard, Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

   carved gold coin, The Merchant's Insane Son, The Stronghold of Sassym, The
   Smugglers' Ships

   castle

                Angbar, Message from the Auhaami

   caves

                smugglers, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   champion, Non-Player Characters

   Chapel Crossing, Non-Player Characters

   chief mage of Carzala, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

   clay balls, The Giant's Watchtower, The Attack on Tuath's Rest

   clean marxist goblins, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   Cleirach, Non-Player Characters

   conspiracy, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

   Cormac Tricerius, Player Characters, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved,
   The Giant's Watchtower, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, Visit to
   Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Akhisar, the Chimera, and
   Tekhadun's Death, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited, Winter in Seagate: Part 1:
   Fog, with Self-Doubt, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and
   Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                death, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

                gets religion, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

                loses finger tip, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

                resurrection, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

   Corvious Darkblade, Non-Player Characters

   Count of Carzala, The Arrest of the Party, Return to Carzala & Events in
   Seagate, The Smugglers' Ships

   Crystal Springs, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, The Search for Jomanal

   Cup, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

  D

   Daffyd ap Hugh, Non-Player Characters

   Dahlil, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   demon, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Winter in Seagate:
   Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed, Spring in Seagate: Part 2:
   Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   demonic worship, Some Events at Finn's Waste

   Derenedeth, Player Characters, The Arrest of the Party, Smugglers' Cove
   and Caves, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster, The Abandoned Cathedral,
   Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                capture by the Beggar King's minions, Roadtrip! Part 1:
                Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

                pardon, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                rejoins party, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   Dhairrhuwyth, The Smugglers' Ships

   disembodied voice, The Abandoned Cathedral

   Djavh, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

   Dohraoul, Non-Player Characters

   DQ, Rules Systems, DragonQuest, GURPS

   DragonQuest, Campaign Background, Setting, Rules Systems, DragonQuest

   drugs, The Giant's Watchtower, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam, Return to
   Carzala & Events in Seagate, Smugglers' Cove and Caves, The Smugglers'
   Ships

   Dulinn Wiell, Non-Player Characters

   dwarven armor, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

   dwarves, Non-Player Characters, The Smugglers' Ships, Spring in Seagate:
   Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                captive in Crypts of Stonesboro, To Clear the Crypts of
                Stonesboro

  E

   eight-armed cross, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Back in
   Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   eight-pointed star, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited, The Smugglers' Ships

   Elbain the Small, The Abandoned Cathedral

   elves, The Merchant's Insane Son

                as food, The Giant's Watchtower

   Enchanted Wood, The, Campaign Background, DragonQuest

   endless stair, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
   People, and Mages

   engineers

                party's, Non-Player Characters, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars,
                Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

                Remy Gill, Non-Player Characters

   Evan, Non-Player Characters, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited, Spring in
   Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

  F

   Finn's Waste, Some Events at Finn's Waste

   fire elemental, The Attack on Tuath's Rest

   fire giant, Non-Player Characters, The Giant's Watchtower, The Attack on
   Tuath's Rest, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   Friendly tribesmen in the South Downs, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
   Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

   fun with fungi, The Stronghold of Sassym

  G

   Gatar Shey, Player Characters, Non-Player Characters, The Nomads & the
   Ruined City of Sumaldi, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj, Recrossing
   the Gatar Shey, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   geas of exploring South, The Arrest of the Party

   geas of resettling Korsepolis, To the Mountain Wall

   Gerrod, Non-Player Characters, Some Events at Finn's Waste, Spring in
   Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   Gh'yal, Non-Player Characters, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   Ghosts, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   ghosts of Vale of Morin, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey,
   Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   giant sandwhip, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   giant worms of the Salt Sea, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   gigantic demonic spider, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

   Gim Torson, Player Characters, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, The
   Merchant's Insane Son, The Search for Jomanal, The Stronghold of Sassym,
   The Attack on Tuath's Rest, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam, Visit to
   Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Escape from Marv Dashlam,
   Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate, The
   Smugglers' Ships, Some Events at Finn's Waste, The Abandoned Cathedral,
   Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed, Spring in
   Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part
   2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                becomes Balour Shaw's apprentice, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

                death, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

                learning magic from Balour Shaw, The Merchant's Insane Son

                loses his leg, Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and
                Demons Disturbed

                nearly dissolved, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

                resurrection, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

                ruthlessness, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

                solo adventure, The Search for Jomanal

   Gim Torson's weather magic, The Attack on Tuath's Rest

   Girfalath, Non-Player Characters

   Golems, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
   People, and Mages

   Grand Theft Pickpocket, The Stronghold of Sassym

   GURPS, Rules Systems, Reflections on a Campaign, GURPS

  H

   Hajj, Non-Player Characters, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj,
   Escape from Marv Dashlam, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   halflings rescued from Smugglers' Caves, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

   Hall of the Great Spider, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited, Some Events at
   Finn's Waste

   Harmon

                ghost of, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   Harun, Non-Player Characters

   heart

                eating, BAMF, Inc., Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Hellish Otherworld, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
   Little People, and Mages

   hermit

                BAMF's, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   horse nomads, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Monsters
   and Merchants Under Seagate, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little
   People, and Orcs Again, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   house, Smugglers' Cove and Caves, Winter in Seagate: Part 1: Fog, with
   Self-Doubt, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                exploded, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and
                Explosions

                slum, Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons
                Disturbed

                             bought, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves,
                             Swords, and Demons

   human sacrifice, Some Events at Finn's Waste

   humanoids, Report from BAMF, Inc.

                settlement in Korsepolis, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   humans

                as food, The Giant's Watchtower

  I

   Ilene, Non-Player Characters, The Stronghold of Sassym, The Smugglers'
   Ships, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   innkeeper

                assaults Jamie Molson, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

  J

   Jamie Molson, Player Characters, The Giant's Watchtower, The Nomads & the
   Ruined City of Sumaldi, The Attack on Tuath's Rest, Escape from Marv
   Dashlam, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations, The Abandoned
   Cathedral, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions,
   Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                abduction, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests,
                Golems, Little People, and Mages

                assaulted by innkeeper, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

                betrayed, The Arrest of the Party

                death, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

                debts, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages

                double, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages

                finds dying orcs, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little
                People, and Orcs Again

                joins party, The Arrest of the Party

                rescue, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages

                resurrection, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

                vision, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages

   Jann, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

                rescued, Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

                sheik's son, The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban

   Jaquays, Paul, DragonQuest

   Jetaleem, Non-Player Characters, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

                leader, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   Jomanal, The Search for Jomanal

   Jubad, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

                attacks party, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

   Judges Guild, The Frontiers of Alusia

  K

   Kalo Bibkins, Player Characters, The Stronghold of Sassym, The Arrest of
   the Party, Smugglers' Cove and Caves, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster,
   Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed, Spring in
   Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                capture, The Arrest of the Party

                confession, The Arrest of the Party

                death, The Arrest of the Party

                executioner, The Arrest of the Party

                joins the party, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

                lightning, The Stronghold of Sassym

                pardon, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                pony, The Stronghold of Sassym

                returns from the dead, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

                torture, The Arrest of the Party

   Karl Blue-tooth, Non-Player Characters

   Kaval-tu-Ata, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

   Kesdra, The Ogres of Crystal Springs

   Knights of Theris, Non-Player Characters

   Korbel Noir, Player Characters, The Desert Gate: Through the
   Saddyahi-Ashban

   Korbel Noir's death, The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban

   Korsepolis, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Monsters and
   Merchants Under Seagate, Report from BAMF, Inc.

                fort, Report from BAMF, Inc.

                road, Message from the Auhaami

                towers, Report from BAMF, Inc.

  L

   Lakal, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   Laughing Human Spider hybrid, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little
   People, and Orcs Again

   little people, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
   People, and Mages, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Little People

                plane, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and
                Orcs Again

   lizards, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, From Tuath's Rest to
   Sev-a-Kalam

  M

   mage's workroom, Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons
   Disturbed, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                house above, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and
                Demons

   magic, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro,
   The Stronghold of Sassym, The Giant's Watchtower, The Attack on Tuath's
   Rest, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited,
   Winter in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed, Spring in
   Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

   magic items

                evil looking, from orcs, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs,
                Little People, and Orcs Again

   Makad-al-Arakan, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Some
   Events at Finn's Waste

   maps, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, The Search for Jomanal

   Marv Dashlam, Non-Player Characters, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of
   Hajj

                Mages' Guild, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj

   mass murders in Akhisar, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   massacre at oasis, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   mazeworm, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
   People, and Mages

   meeting with Count, Some Events at Finn's Waste, Monsters and Merchants
   Under Seagate, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   meeting with merchants, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate, Monsters
   and Merchants Under Seagate

   Melthal Heavy-hand, Non-Player Characters

   mercenaries

                party's, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and
                Demons, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs,
                Little People, and Orcs Again

   merchant

                of Akhisar, Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

   merchant emissaries

                of Akhisar, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   modern conveniences, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
   Little People, and Mages

   Moghu, Non-Player Characters, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   Mordraug, Player Characters, Non-Player Characters, Visit to
   Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing,
   Wolves, and Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and
   Demons

   Mordraug's Lair, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and
   Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   Mother Thistle, Non-Player Characters, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing
   the Gatar Shey, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   Mountain Wall, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Monsters
   and Merchants Under Seagate, Reflections on a Campaign

   mysterious man of Marv Dashlam, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj,
   Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

  N

   Narung, Player Characters, Non-Player Characters, To Clear the Crypts of
   Stonesboro, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, Winter in Seagate:
   Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords,
   and Demons

                shattering, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and Narung's Breaking

   necromancers, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro, The Stronghold of Sassym

  O

   oaths, The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban, Back in Akhisar and
   Attempted Assassinations, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   ogres, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, The Search for Jomanal

                cave, The Ogres of Crystal Springs

   old woman, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Orcish throneroom, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and Orcs
   Again

   orrery, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
   People, and Mages

   outlaws, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, Return to Carzala & Events in
   Seagate

  P

   party

                agreement to build a wayhouse for Blackstone Chapel,
                Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
                People, and Mages

                arrest, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

                Attacked in South Downs, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

                fights their way out of Marv Dashlam, Escape from Marv
                Dashlam

                property restored, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

                works for Akhisar city guard, Akhisar, the Chimera, and
                Tekhadun's Death

   pirates, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate, Smugglers' Cove and Caves,
   The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

   Polam Wesved, Non-Player Characters, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved,
   Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

                death of, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

   Prophet's End Inn, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

  R

   Rabon, The Abandoned Cathedral

   Rasson, The Merchant's Insane Son

   Rayesta, Non-Player Characters, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

   Regir's Keep, The Ogres of Crystal Springs

   Remy Gill, Non-Player Characters, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
   Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

   Resimaldi, Message from the Auhaami

   Roc, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   Ruined Castle

                in the South Downs, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

   Ruins

                in the South Downs, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles,
                Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

  S

   Salt Sea, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   Sand Golems, Non-Player Characters

   sandwhip, Recrossing the Gatar Shey

   Sassym's Stronghold, The Smugglers' Ships

   Sea of Grass, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People, and Orcs
   Again

   Selye Storm-watcher, Non-Player Characters

   sessions

                1985, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, The Merchant's Insane
                Son, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro, Blackstone Chapel vs.
                Polam Wesved, The Search for Jomanal

                1986, The Stronghold of Sassym, The Arrest of the Party, To
                the Mountain Wall, The Giant's Watchtower, The Nomads & the
                Ruined City of Sumaldi, The Attack on Tuath's Rest, From
                Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam, Visit to Makad-al-Arakan and
                Narung's Breaking, Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's
                Death, Marv Dashlam and the Abduction of Hajj, Escape from
                Marv Dashlam, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations,
                Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Return to Carzala & Events in
                Seagate

                1987, Smugglers' Cove and Caves, The Capture of Amur
                Gibbetsmaster

                1988, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited, The Smugglers' Ships, Some
                Events at Finn's Waste, The Abandoned Cathedral, Monsters and
                Merchants Under Seagate

                1989, Winter in Seagate: Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt, Winter
                in Seagate: Part 2: Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed

                1992, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and
                Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and
                Demons

                1994, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs,
                Little People, and Orcs Again

   Sev-a-kalam, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   sewers, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate, Winter in Seagate: Part 2:
   Mad Mages and Demons Disturbed, Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves,
   Swords, and Demons

   shadow creatures, The Giant's Watchtower, The Attack on Tuath's Rest,
   Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Interesting Items

   Shay Uvall, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations, Recrossing the
   Gatar Shey, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions,
   Spring in Seagate: Part 2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                joins party, Back in Akhisar and Attempted Assassinations

   Simulations Publications, Inc., Setting

   Skaven, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   slave trading, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   slaves freed by party, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   Slehad, Non-Player Characters, The Giant's Watchtower

   Smugglers' Cove, Smugglers' Cove and Caves, The Smugglers' Ships

   smuggling, Return to Carzala & Events in Seagate

                drugs, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

   South Downs, Report from BAMF, Inc.

                Ruined Castle, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests,
                Golems, Little People, and Mages

                Ruins, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
                Little People, and Mages

                travel time, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   South Lending, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved, Roadtrip! Part 1:
   Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

   SPI, Campaign Background, Setting, Rules Systems, The Frontiers of Alusia,
   DragonQuest

   Spider Hall, Non-Player Characters, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited, Some
   Events at Finn's Waste

   spiders, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

   Steffan, Non-Player Characters

   Steve Jackson Games, GURPS

   Stonesboro, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   subterranean beast, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems,
   Little People, and Mages

   subterranean beast upset, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little People,
   and Orcs Again

   Suliman Trade, Non-Player Characters, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro,
   Winter in Seagate: Part 1: Fog, with Self-Doubt, Roadtrip! Part 1:
   Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little People, and Mages

   Sumaldi, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, Monsters and Merchants
   Under Seagate, Message from the Auhaami

   Sweet Riding, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, Spring in Seagate: Part 1:
   Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

  T

   Talisman, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

   talking owl, The Search for Jomanal

   Tamhas, Non-Player Characters

   Tathlam Dargan, Non-Player Characters

   Tekhadun, Non-Player Characters

                death, Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

                joins party, The Arrest of the Party

   Tesla Ramana, Player Characters, Escape from Marv Dashlam, The Capture of
   Amur Gibbetsmaster, The Smugglers' Ships, Spring in Seagate: Part 2:
   Dwarves, Swords, and Demons, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs, Little
   People, and Orcs Again, Post-Campaign Events

                Abduction, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests,
                Golems, Little People, and Mages

                gives up adventuring, The Capture of Amur Gibbetsmaster

                maimed, Smugglers' Cove and Caves

                rescued from Little People, Roadtrip! Part 2: Nomads, Orcs,
                Little People, and Orcs Again

                takes over party's businesses, The Smugglers' Ships

   The Mage, Non-Player Characters, The Merchant's Insane Son, To the
   Mountain Wall, Roadtrip! Part 1: Beggars, Doubles, Priests, Golems, Little
   People, and Mages, Reflections on a Campaign

   The Necromancer, Non-Player Characters, To the Mountain Wall, Reflections
   on a Campaign

   Thieves Guild, The Stronghold of Sassym, Spring in Seagate: Part 2:
   Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

   Thornwood Forest, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey,
   Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   Thri-Kreen, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi, The Attack on Tuath's
   Rest

   Thronewood, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Tomon, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro

   treasure chests, The Giant's Watchtower, From Tuath's Rest to Sev-a-Kalam

   tribe

                stone-age

                             friendly, Report from BAMF, Inc.

   Tuath's Rest, The Attack on Tuath's Rest, From Tuath's Rest to
   Sev-a-Kalam, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Background

   Tully Glas, Non-Player Characters

   tunnels behind smugglers' caves, Smugglers' Cove, Revisited

   Turon, The Merchant's Insane Son

   Turon's cave, The Merchant's Insane Son

   Tychel, Non-Player Characters, Blackstone Chapel vs. Polam Wesved

   Tyrrell

                abduction, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

  U

   Uillean Kawiyr, Non-Player Characters

   Ulfred, Non-Player Characters

   undead, Message from the Auhaami

   URP, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

  V

   Vale of Morin, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the Gatar Shey, Some
   Events at Finn's Waste, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate, Report from
   BAMF, Inc.

   Vlad Sharp-knife, Non-Player Characters, The Ogres of Crystal Springs, The
   Smugglers' Ships

  W

   war between orcs and hobgoblins, To the Mountain Wall, Recrossing the
   Gatar Shey, Monsters and Merchants Under Seagate

   watchtower, Report from BAMF, Inc., Message from the Auhaami

   water elemental, The Stronghold of Sassym

   wealthy and malicious nobleman, The Stronghold of Sassym

   were-tiger, The Desert Gate: Through the Saddyahi-Ashban

   Wilderlands of Gilarni, The Merchant's Insane Son

   wine-bearing madman, Player Characters, To Clear the Crypts of Stonesboro,
   Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

   Winther, Player Characters, The Attack on Tuath's Rest, Akhisar, the
   Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death, Escape from Marv Dashlam, Smugglers' Cove,
   Revisited, The Smugglers' Ships, Some Events at Finn's Waste, Spring in
   Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions, Spring in Seagate: Part
   2: Dwarves, Swords, and Demons

                drinking problem, Akhisar, the Chimera, and Tekhadun's Death

   Wolf River, Spring in Seagate: Part 1: Healing, Wolves, and Explosions

  Y

   Yavidi, Non-Player Characters, The Nomads & the Ruined City of Sumaldi

   Yester, The Abandoned Cathedral

                                    Colophon

   This document was produced using DocBook and the DocBook XSL stylesheets,
   processed by xsltproc.

   PDF versions were produced with the FOP FO processor. The duplicate page
   numbers in the index of the PDF version link to mulitple places on the
   indicated page.
